Time to write a few more advanced queries by using the pool query.

This query is used for adding Boolean logic to a query.

You can think of this query as being similar to the weight loss in SQL, although the pool query is more advanced because it also deals with relevant scores.

Before diving into it, I first want to recap on something I covered earlier in the course the contexts in which a query can be run.

You might recall that a query can either be run in a query context or in a filter context.

The difference is essential for understanding the pull query within a query.

Context.

Relevance.

Scores are calculated and documents are ordered.

But how will the magic given query in a filter context is only determined whether or not a document matches a query and not how well it matches a query.

The pool query can be used within both contexts, but we're going to use the query context for now.

With that fresh in our memory.

Let's get to work with the pool query.

So let me just enter the pool query type first and an empty objects.

What I want to do first is to match recipes that contain Parmesan as an ingredient.

And because I'm feeling lazy, I want the preparation time to be 15 minutes or less.

I can do that by specifying queries within a key named must.

So let's add the must key and that's an array as you can see.

So this array will contain an array of objects and each object will be a query class.

So let's add the first objects which will be a match query query the ingredients start name fields for the term parmesan.

So that was one of the constraints.

Let's add another query clause within the must array being arranged query for the preparation time minutes field and I will specify the lce key and 15 as the value.

So as you can see here, I'm just specifying query clauses within the mastery.

So the objects that you add within this array are exactly the same as the queries that you've seen before.

Note that I added an array as the value for the Ms.

key.

You can also add an object with the crews as keys, but that only works if you don't have more than one query of the same type.

I just prefer to specify an array.

So that's the syntax that I have chosen.

Okay, so what does this actually mean? It probably comes as no surprise to you that the queries within the must key must be satisfied for document to match the query queries nested within the mosque must match.

But it's also important to note that the queries will contribute to a document's relevance score.

This means that while the document must be matched by all queries within the must, objects or must array, it's also scored by how well it matches those queries.

This happens based on various relevant scores that we discussed earlier.

With that being said, let's just run the query so you can see the results.

And we should find that the recipes do indeed contain Parmesan and have a preparation time of less than or equal to 15.

Okay.

So we can actually improve our query because it makes no sense to try to calculate how well a document satisfied the range query.

It's really a yes or no question.

Instead of keeping the query within the mastery, we should move it within a filter object.

While Elasticsearch is smart enough to just apply a constant score of one to the range query when it's placed within the mastery, the filter object has an edge in terms of performance.

The filter object is for queries that either match or they don't, i.e.

there's no such thing as how well they match.

More precisely, queries within this object are run in a filter context as opposed to the query context, which is why scoring is ignored.

Caching is where filter crews have an edge because the query clauses can be cached for subsequent queries.

This is because the result of the query clauses directly depends on the query and the documents.

There's no notion of how well the documents match, so this makes the results much easier to cache.

Enough talking.

Let's move the query to the filter objects.

So I'll go ahead and cut this object right here and add a filter object.

Or actually I'll add it as an array, but the same rules apply as with the must key, and I'll just paste it in here running the query.

We should get the exact same matches as before.

A small thing to notice is that the scores are exactly one lower, which is the result of the constant score no longer being applied as when the query was within the mastery.

The query matches recipes containing Parmesan with a preparation time of maximum 15 minutes.

I want to refine the query a bit because I noticed that one of the recipes contain tuna and I don't like it.

I therefore want to filter out recipes containing tuna as an ingredient, so kind of the opposite of the most objects.

This can easily be done with a must underscore, not objects.

The syntax is the same as the other objects.

So nothing new here.

So let's go ahead and add that.

So must underscore nuts.

Again, I'll specify it as an array, but if you prefer an object, you can go ahead and do that.

And actually I'll just be lazy and make a copy of this query here and paste it in and just change the value to tuna and let's run it.

So documents must not match the query that I just added.

The query closes within the must underscore not objects are executed in the filter context.

Exactly as with the filter objects, scoring is therefore ignored and the score of zero is returned for all documents.

As with any other queries in the filter context, queries within the must not object are also considered for caching.

The reason I say considered is that that is something Elasticsearch handles first, so there is no guarantee that a query will be cached, although chances are that it will.

Okay, so I want to add something else to the query now.

While I don't like tuna, I really like parsley.

So I want to rank recipes that contain parsley higher.

I can do that by adding a query similar to the other ones.

So assert objects.

So let's go ahead and add a new key named Stuart following the same syntax as the other keys.

And again, I'll just make a copy of this query, paste it in and insert parsley as the value here.

And before talking further about it, I'll just go ahead and run it.

Now the Stewart object is a bit special.

It basically means the queries within it boost a score if they match, but they are not required to match.

So a recipe that contains parsley is likely to score higher than one without parsley.

This is no guarantee, as it depends on how well other queries match to.

But you can think of it as an object in which you can define preferences.

Like I prefer recipes with parsley, but I don't require them to contain parsley.

Looking at the results, we should see that the first recipe contains parsley as an ingredient, and indeed it does.

Like I said, there is no guarantee the recipes with parsley will be scored highest, but they will get a boosted score.

The reason I said that this should object is a bit special is that its behavior depends on a pool query as a whole and what else it contains.

If the pool query is in a query context and contains a must or filter object, then the search queries do not need to match for a document to match the pool query as a whole.

If this is the case, the only purpose of the search queries is to influence the relevance scores of matching documents.

On the other hand, if the pool query is in a filtering context, or if it doesn't have a must or filter object, then at least one of the search queries must match.

That's because the search queries are intended for boosting documents, matching a set of queries, but the documents should still satisfy some concerns.

Otherwise every single document in an index would be matched.

You can actually control this behavior with the minimum underscore should underscore match parameter, which allows you to define how many short clauses must match.

The simplest usage is by specifying a number, but you can also define percentages.

But that gets a little complicated and it's really necessary.

Did all of that sound confusing? Don't worry, I totally understand that.

Here are a few example queries to make what I just said easier to understand.

What I want to do first is to match documents that contain pasta as an ingredient and optionally parmesan.

So a must query and a search query respectively.

So I'll just make a copy of this query.

And modified accordingly.

So let's just get rid of the filter.

And also the must not key.

And then I'll be querying for the term pasta within ingredients and also parmesan.

Okay.

And let's run it.

So this query is similar to what we wrote before, although a bit simpler.

It matches recipes with pasta as an ingredient and gives a relevance boost to recipes with Parmesan.

Let's now try to remove the must object altogether and inspect the results.

So let's get rid of this.

And run the query again.

We get the same number of matches, but there is an important difference.

Since we no longer have a must or filter object, at least one should query must match.

In this case we only have one query clause.

So this means that the recipes must contain parmesan.

So as you can see, removing the must object means that the parmesan ingredient went from being optional and boosting the relevant score to being required.

Suppose that we now add the query clause that are just deleted within the filter objects.

This would mean that the pasta ingredient would be required once again and that the parmesan ingredient would be optional once again.

Recipes containing Parmesan would then get a boost for their relevant scores.

I hope that makes it easier to understand because it can be a little confusing at first.

Anyways, that was how to use the pool query to add boolean logic to queries, something that you have probably seen or done before with relational databases or something like that.

