Remember how we talked about how to debug queries with the Explain API early in the course? That API is useful for understanding why a document did or didn't match a query.

We can do something similar for pull queries specifically by using named queries.

This makes it possible to see which query classes a document matched.

Of course we don't need this for the most must not or filter queries because these behave the same across all documents.

It becomes useful when we want to see what short classes a document matches to try and make sense of the relevant scores.

There is of course, nothing stopping you from using the explained API as well if you want more detailed information.

So the way it works is that we add a parameter named underscore name to each query clause and give it a name.

Therefore, we need to move things around a little.

So the keys containing the field names contain an object instead of the query itself.

So let's get to work on the query from the previous lecture and give each query class a name.

So instead of specifying Parmesan directly here, I'll change the value to an object and add a query key with Parmesan instead.

And then I can add an underscore name key here and give it an arbitrary name.

I'll write Parmesan underscore must just so that we can easily recognize it within the results.

And then I'll do exactly the same for the other query classes.

First, the must not clause.

So query.

Tuna.

Underscore.

Name.

Tuna.

Underscore.

Must.

Underscore.

Not.

Onto the shirtless down here.

So Parsley let's move this to a quirky.

And again on the score name here I will write parsley on the score should.

And last but not least, let's do the same within the filter clause right here.

But since this is already an object, I just need to add the underscore name key.

Being the name of the career, of course.

And I will name it.

Prep.

Underscore time.

Underscore filter.

So let's run this query.

And within the results we'll see a key named match queries within the results for each document.

So let's try to find it.

The matched underscore queries key contains an array with the query names that the document matched.

So the first match being the one that you see here match both the must and filter crude losses, which it had to, and it also matched the search query.

If we scroll down to the second match, we'll see that it only matched the mandatory recruit classes and not the search query, which gives a relevant boost to recipes containing parsley.

This indicates that the first recipe is scored higher because it contains parsley and the second recipe doesn't.

And that's how you can use named queries for debugging pool queries to get some insights about which parts of a pool query, a given document matched.

And you can use that to try and figure out why a given document matched higher than another one, for example.

