We covered the match query in a section on the full text queries, but did you wonder how the query works internally? Probably not.

But if I remind you that the match query uses a default boolean operator of or with the option of changing it to end, then you might see where I'm going with this.

Although not categorized as a compound query, the match query actually constructs a pool query internally.

It does this as part of the analysis process.

After the query has been analyzed by the Fields Analyzer, the tokens resulting from the analysis process are added to a pool query as term queries.

This means that the match query is just a convenient wrapper around the pool query that simplifies writing common queries.

It means that you can just throw a search query directly at Elasticsearch instead of having to tokenize the query first in your application to construct a pool query just to show you that this is indeed the case.

Let's take a couple of match queries and write the corresponding pool queries that the match queries translate to internally.

So let's begin by matching a title of pasta carbonara.

So the title Fields and Pasta Carbonara.

And I'll just run it.

So remember that the default operator for the match query is or so this query translates into a pool query with two short query clauses one for each term within the match query.

Let's write this query out explicitly so that you can see both queries.

So I'll just make a copy of this and adjust the query.

Get rid of the match query and replace it with a pool query.

And as should every.

And add a term query within an object here.

The fields is the title fields, and I'll just specify the value directly.

So the value is pasta.

And I'll have to add another one of these queries for the term carbonara.

And let's go ahead and run this query.

So these two queries do exactly the same thing.

The results are the same, and the relevant scores of the matching documents are exactly the same as well.

Let's copy the first query and then change the boolean operator.

So end.

So I'll just need to restructure the query as an object.

Instead, specify a query key.

And paste the query in there and then add an operator parameter with a value of end.

Can you guess what the equivalent of this query is? A pull query with each term translated into a term query within the must objects.

So just to save a bit of typing, I'll just copy this.

And let's move it up a bit.

And instead of the shoulds array, I'll change it to must.

And that's it.

So let's first try to run this query here.

And then try to run this one and we can see that once again, we get the same results.

Just as with the pool query, the match query also accepts the minimum underscore should underscore match parameter where you can configure how many of the short clauses must match.

This parameter is simply passed to the pool query during the analysis process.

Okay, so just one more thing.

Perhaps you're wondering how all of this works because the match query is analyzed and the term query isn't so won't be a problem with case sensitivity and such.

No, this is actually not a problem.

The reason is that the term queries are constructed based on the results of the analysis process.

So the match query goes through the appropriate analysis process which tokenize the query, lowercase letters or whatever the analyzer is configured to do.

The terms that are used for the term queries have therefore been analyzed and therefore match what is stored within the inverted index.

We can easily test this with the last two queries that we wrote.

Let's capitalize the term pasta within the match query and see what happens.

So let's change this to a capitalized P and run the query.

We still get the same results because the query is analyzed and a part of that process is to lowercase the query.

Let's try to do the same for the corresponding pool query and see if it makes any difference.

So I'll change this to a capital P and run the query.

Now we no longer get any matches.

So what does this mean? It means that even if we supply the match query with capitalized words, it's the result of the analysis process that is used for constructing the pool query.

In this example, the analysis process yields two terms being pasta and carbonara, which are then lowercase by a token filter.

The resulting terms are then used for the term queries within the pool query.

So we're essentially searching analyze data with an analyzed query, and that's why we get the same matches.

So just to quickly recap the important things to understand, when you send a match query to Elasticsearch, it analyzes the query and adds a term query clause to a pool query for each term that comes out of the analysis process.

If the boolean operator is or which is the default, then the terms are added as term query clauses within the short object, meaning that at least one of them should match.

If the boolean operator is said to end, the term, queries are added within the must object, meaning that all of them should be present for the given fields for document to match.

Since the query is analyzed, it's the result in terms of the analysis process that are used for the term query losses.

This means that the query has gone through the same analyzer as what's stored within the inverted index.

But what if a match query only receives a query consisting of a single term? In that case, it doesn't make much sense to use a pool query, so instead a single term query is used.

That is a term query that is not nested within a pool query.

And that's how the match query works internally.

This also marks the end of this section on compound queries.

There are a few more compound queries than what we have just covered, but I will get back to those a bit later when we get into tuning relevant scores.

