# Defining field aliases

In the previous lecture, I showed an example of how we could change the name of a field when reindexing documents into a new index.

That’s useful if you need to reindex documents anyway, but if you have millions of documents,  it’s probably not worth the effort to reindex them just for the sake of renaming a field.

In this lecture I will show you an alternative that doesn’t require documents to be reindexed.

What we can do instead, is to use aliases.

Let’s implement the example from the previous lecture, being to change the "content"  field to "comment".

Instead of actually renaming the field, we can add an alias pointing to the actual field,  which we can then use in our queries instead of the original name.

The way we do that is to add a new field mapping, which you have seen how to do already.

We use a data type named "alias" and specify the aliase’s target field name within a parameter named "path".

Let’s type that out.

## Add `comment` alias pointing to the `content` field
```
PUT /reviews/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "comment": {
      "type": "alias",
      "path": "content"
    }
  }
}
```
```
{
  "acknowledged" : true
}

```
two search queries prepared that simply search the original field and the alias, respectively.
## Using the field alias
```
GET /reviews/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "comment": "outstanding"
    }
  }
}
```
I’m sure you can imagine that the first query works as it always has, but let’s quickly run it to be sure.

```
{
  "took" : 7,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0496836,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "reviews",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0496836,
        "_source" : {
          "rating" : 5.0,
          "content" : "Outstanding course! Bo really taught me a lot about Elasticsearch!",
          "product_id" : 123,
          "author" : {
            "first_name" : "John",
            "last_name" : "Doe",
            "email" : "johndoe123@example.com"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

```
If we specify the "comment" field instead, we should get the same results.

## Using the "original" field name still works
```
GET /reviews/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "content": "outstanding"
    }
  }
}
```
```
{
  "took" : 0,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0496836,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "reviews",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0496836,
        "_source" : {
          "rating" : 5.0,
          "content" : "Outstanding course! Bo really taught me a lot about Elasticsearch!",
          "product_id" : 123,
          "author" : {
            "first_name" : "John",
            "last_name" : "Doe",
            "email" : "johndoe123@example.com"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
Indeed the results are the same.

A field alias is useful in situations where you want to rename a field but don’t want to reindex data just for that purpose.

While adding an alias does not get rid of the existing field mapping, it does let you query a field by a different name.

A field alias is actually one of the few examples of mappings that can be updated.

Not its name, but its target field.

If you want to change the field that an alias points to, you can simply perform a mapping update with a new value for the "path" parameter.

That’s possible because an alias has no influence on how values are indexed; it is simply a construct used when parsing queries, whether it’s a search or index request.

2022-09-14_23-12

On the diagram, you can see how the "comment" alias is translated into the field name that it points to for both an index request and a search query.

After translating the alias into the original field name, a query is handled in exactly the same way as it would have if the original field name was specified.

That’s essentially all there is to field aliases.

There are a few limitations in how you can use them, but none that you are likely to come across; for all common use cases, you can utilize aliases as you would expect.

It is also possible to configure index aliases at the cluster level, which is useful in a number of use cases, particularly when dealing with high volumes of data.

Anyway, I don’t want to get into that in this section of the course, but I just wanted to mention it because it is related.

