# Multi-field mappings

It may come as a surprise to you that a field may actually be mapped in multiple ways.

For instance, a "text" field may be mapped as a "keyword" field at the same time.

That’s what we will look at in this lecture.

I have a simple query prepared, which creates a throwaway index with two fields; "description"  and "ingredients".

## Add `keyword` mapping to a `text` field
```
PUT /multi_field_test
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "text"
      },
      "ingredients": {
        "type": "text",
        "fields": {
          "keyword": {
            "type": "keyword"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

As a quick reminder, remember how every field in Elasticsearch may store zero or more values  by default.

That’s why we haven’t defined that the "ingredients" field will contain multiple  values; we simply specify an array of values when indexing documents.

Imagine that we have a blog full of food recipes, and we want users to be able to search through them.

Suppose that a user searches for "spaghetti," in which case we want to search for that value  in both the recipe description, but also within the ingredients.

We can do that just fine with the two text fields.

"text" fields are used for performing full-text searches that do not require exact  matches, so this data type is often used together with raw user input.

Suppose that besides providing search functionality to end users, we want an index page that lists  all ingredients and how many recipes use them.

That’s a job for aggregations, which we will look at later in the course.

For reasons that I won’t get into right now, we cannot run aggregations on "text" fields.

Instead, we need to use the "keyword" data type.

To be clear, aggregations can also be run on dates and numbers, but that won’t help  us in this example.

The point of the matter is that to run aggregations on text values, we need to use the "keyword"  data type.

Since we also need the "text" data type, we basically need two mappings for the "ingredients" field.

You probably guessed it - we can add another mapping to the field.

We do that by specifying a "fields" mapping parameter containing other mappings for a field.

Let’s type that out before going into more detail.

Alright, so what I just did was to add an additional mapping to the "ingredients"  field named "keyword".

At first it might seem confusing that both the name and data type is set to "keyword".

This is just a matter of convention; you can name the mapping anything you want, but I  recommend that you name it "keyword" as in this case.

You will see how this makes sense in a moment when I show you how to query this particular  mapping.

First, let’s index a document.

## Index a test document
```
POST /multi_field_test/_doc
{
  "description": "To make this spaghetti carbonara, you first need to...",
  "ingredients": ["Spaghetti", "Bacon", "Eggs"]
}
```

Notice how there is no sign of the "keyword" mapping when indexing documents; we simply  specify the field in the same way as we would if there was no additional field mapping.

Let’s run the query.

```
{
  "_index" : "multi_field_test",
  "_type" : "_doc",
  "_id" : "6NfdPYMBILlwD3ZNx-QT",
  "_version" : 1,
  "result" : "created",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 0,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}

```

2022-09-14_23-19

Okay, so what actually happened behind the scenes when indexing the document?  As you know, "text" fields are analyzed, so an inverted index was populated with the  terms that were emitted by the analyzer.

That was done for each "text" field.

Nothing new here.

However, since we have an additional mapping for the "ingredients" field, another inverted  index was created for the field, this time using the "keyword" analyzer.

It therefore contains the unmodified values, meaning that the terms have not been lowercased.

This inverted index is optimized for exact matches, and we can use it for aggregations  and sorting as well.

Had we made use of stemming, for instance, the differences between the two mappings would  be more apparent, but I am sure you get the idea.

## Retrieve documents
```
GET /multi_field_test/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```
If we run a "match_all" search query, we will see that the "ingredients" field  within the results looks exactly as normal.

```
{
  "took" : 1,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "multi_field_test",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "6NfdPYMBILlwD3ZNx-QT",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "description" : "To make this spaghetti carbonara, you first need to...",
          "ingredients" : [
            "Spaghetti",
            "Bacon",
            "Eggs"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}

```
We can query the field exactly as normal with a "match" query, which is the main query  used for full-text searches.

To search for exact values, we need to use something called a term level query.

## Querying the `text` mapping
```
GET /multi_field_test/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "ingredients": "Spaghetti"
    }
  }
}
```

Don’t worry about these queries for now, as we will get back to all of them later in the course.

All you need to know is that the "term" query requires an exact match for the target field.

When doing exact matches on text values, we should query a "keyword" mapping.

We will take a closer look at why that is the case a bit later in the course.

To query the "keyword" mapping, we specify the field name, a dot, followed by the name  of the mapping — "keyword" in this case.

Unlike the query we just ran, this one will query the inverted index containing the raw  string values supplied at index time - i.e. values that were not analyzed.

Running the query, we can see that it works as well.

```
{
  "took" : 8,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.2876821,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "multi_field_test",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "6NfdPYMBILlwD3ZNx-QT",
        "_score" : 0.2876821,
        "_source" : {
          "description" : "To make this spaghetti carbonara, you first need to...",
          "ingredients" : [
            "Spaghetti",
            "Bacon",
            "Eggs"
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
That’s how you can define multiple mappings for a field.

This is useful in situations where you need to query a field in different ways.

In this lecture we saw that with a "text" field that also contained a "keyword" mapping.

This allows us to use the "text" mapping for full-text searches and the "keyword"  mapping for aggregations and sorting.

This is probably the most common use case of multi-fields, but it is definitely not  the only one.

You have much more control of how values are indexed than just the data type, because you  can change mapping parameters as well.

An example could be to configure synonyms or stemming in different ways for a single field.

Or having an additional mapping for the "description" field that is optimized for auto-completion  and "search-as-you-type" functionality.

Anyway, the use cases for multi-fields are many, so this is an incredibly powerful feature.

Lastly, I will just get rid of this temporary index since we don’t need it anymore.

## Clean up
```
DELETE /multi_field_test
```

I will see you in the next lecture!  