# Index templates

In this lecture we will look at something called index templates.

Perhaps you can guess what it is based on the name.

An index template defines settings and/or mappings for indices that match one or more patterns.

A pattern is a wildcard expression that is matched against an index name whenever a new  index is created, and so index templates only apply to new indices.

Let me show you what an index template looks like, and then I will get back to when they are useful.

I have already prepared part of the query to add a new index template.

Specifically, I have already defined the mappings for a couple of fields, because that part  doesn’t contain anything you haven’t seen before.

Well, almost, but I will get back to that.

## Adding an index template named `access-logs`
```
PUT /_template/access-logs
{
  "index_patterns": ["access-logs-*"],
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "@timestamp": {
        "type": "date"
      },
      "url.original": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "http.request.referrer": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "http.response.status_code": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
We can add a new index template by using the Index Template API together with the PUT HTTP verb.

The request path is "_template" followed by the name of the index template.

I have named the template "access-logs" because it’s going to define mappings for  indices storing HTTP access logs.

There is one important part missing, though; the index patterns that define which indices  this template should be applied to.

Those should be defined within an "index_patterns" parameter consisting of an array of strings.

As mentioned a moment ago, index patterns are essentially index names where parts of  them may be wildcards.

You don’t have to use wildcards, so you can perfectly fine just specify the exact  index names, but that probably defeats the purpose of using an index template.

In this case I will specify an index pattern with an asterisk wildcard at the end.

So what’s the point of this pattern?  Elasticsearch is often used to store time series data, which can be a lot of different  things, just as long as the entries are sorted chronologically.

Typically an equal amount of time will occur between each data point, but that is not a requirement.

For example, we could capture and store the hardware usage of servers every minute, or  perhaps every second.

Or we could ping an API endpoint to store uptime information.

This is actually what Metricbeat and Heartbeat does, respectively.

In fact, they also utilize index patterns to apply mappings and index settings.

So why did I include a wildcard at the end of the index pattern?  Because time series data is often divided into multiple indices.

How many depends on the data volume, so it could be per year, month, week, or day, for instance.

A common approach is to create one index per day for large data volumes.

Think millions of entries per day.

For fewer entries, you could get away with far fewer indices.

There are numerous reasons for doing this, but I don’t want to get into details now.

2022-09-16_02-24

For monthly indices, the index names could look like this.

For daily indices, a common pattern is the following.

Those index names are all matched by our pattern.

This means that if we create a new index for tomorrow’s access logs, the mappings that  we have defined will automatically be created.

Pretty cool, right?  

Apart from specifying mappings, an index template can also contain index settings.

Let’s specify the number of shards, first of all.

The format is the same as you saw earlier in the course, so let me just type that out.

## Adding an index template named `access-logs`
```
PUT /_template/access-logs
{
  "index_patterns": ["access-logs-*"],
  "settings": {
    "number_of_shards": 2,
    "index.mapping.coerce": false
  }, 
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "@timestamp": {
        "type": "date"
      },
      "url.original": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "http.request.referrer": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "http.response.status_code": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Just as you have seen before, we could also define the number of replica shards here if  we wanted to.

Instead, I am going to disable type coercion.

Disabling it at the index level means that every field inherits the setting and uses  it unless it is overridden.

Alright, let’s run the query to add the index template.

Now that the index template has been added, let’s create a new index that matches the  index pattern of the template.

Specifically, an index to contain access logs for the 1st of January, 2020.

## Adding an index matching the index template's pattern
```
PUT /access-logs-2020-01-01
```
Let’s inspect the index to ensure that both the mapping and settings were applied as expected.

For that, we can simply specify the index name and use  the "GET" HTTP verb.

## Verify that the mapping is applied
```
GET /access-logs-2020-01-01
```
```
{
  "access-logs-2020-01-01" : {
    "aliases" : { },
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "@timestamp" : {
          "type" : "date"
        },
        "http" : {
          "properties" : {
            "request" : {
              "properties" : {
                "referrer" : {
                  "type" : "keyword"
                }
              }
            },
            "response" : {
              "properties" : {
                "status_code" : {
                  "type" : "long"
                }
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "url" : {
          "properties" : {
            "original" : {
              "type" : "keyword"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "settings" : {
      "index" : {
        "routing" : {
          "allocation" : {
            "include" : {
              "_tier_preference" : "data_content"
            }
          }
        },
        "mapping" : {
          "coerce" : "false"
        },
        "number_of_shards" : "2",
        "provided_name" : "access-logs-2020-01-01",
        "creation_date" : "1663288209719",
        "number_of_replicas" : "1",
        "uuid" : "d-WC95ilTgyqyBJIyzm78Q",
        "version" : {
          "created" : "7170299"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Within the results, we indeed see both the mapping and the settings that we specified  within the index template.

Awesome!  Alright, just a few more things to mention before ending this lecture.

2022-09-16_02-31

If a new index matches the pattern of an index template, those settings and mappings will be used.

However, if the request to create the new index also specifies settings or mappings,  the two will be merged together.

In case of duplicates, the configuration from the create index request will take precedence  and override the value specified within the index template.

You can see that on the example diagram where the index template specifies that indices  should have two shards and two replica shards.

When creating an index, the "number_of_shards" setting is present with a value of three.

This is merged together with the settings from the index template.

Since there is a duplicate entry, the setting from the index template is overriden.

The result is therefore three shards and two replica shards.

A new index may also match more than one index template.

Index templates can be created with an "order" parameter which is simply an integer value  representing the priority of the template.

This is used to control which settings take precedence in cases where an index matches  multiple templates.

2022-09-16_02-32

Index templates can be updated with new mappings and settings.

To do this, simply use the same API as when creating the template and send the full new configuration.

This only affects new indices; existing indices that matched the index template are left untouched.

An index template can be retrieved and deleted by using the same endpoint with the "GET"  and "DELETE" HTTP verbs, respectively.

Lastly, you might have wondered why I named the fields the way I did.

Those field names were definitely not the shortest and simplest ones that I could have chosen.

That’s due to something called the Elastic Common Schema, which we will take a look at  in the next lecture, so I will see you there!  