Let’s get back to text analysis now and talk about two important concepts; stemming  and stop words.

Consider the following sentence.

"Loved" is in the past tense.

"Drinking" is a gerund.

"Bottles" is the plural form of the word "bottle".

"Year’s" indicates possession.

Those were just a couple of linguistic details of the sentence.

The point is that those words are not in their root form.

Suppose that we index a document with this sentence into an Elasticsearch index, using  the "standard" analyzer, which is the default behavior for "text" fields.

All the analyzer is going to do is to lowercase all of the letters and get rid of the punctuation  — apart from tokenizing the sentence of course.

What happens if we search for the term "loves?"  The document is not going to match because the indexed word is in a different tense.

That’s typically not ideal because the meaning is essentially the same regardless of which  tense the word is in; the tense being different doesn’t mean that the document is not relevant.

In fact, we probably want the document to match the query instead of getting no results  and requiring users to search in exactly the correct tense.

We can fix this by using something called stemming.

Stemming is the process of reducing words to their root form.

For example, the word "loved" can be stemmed to "love," and "drinking" can be stemmed  to "drink".

Let’s try to apply stemming on the whole sentence and see what it then looks like.

As you can see, not all words are stemmed to valid words, depending on how aggressive  the stemming is configured to be.

That’s just how stemming algorithms work, so that’s nothing to be concerned about.

Stemming is just something Elasticsearch uses internally, so no one is going to actually  see these terms.

I will get back to how stemming works in the context of search queries very soon, but let’s  talk about the concept of stop words first.

Simply put, stop words are words that are filtered out in the analysis process.

That can be any words, but stop words almost always refer to the most common words in a  given language.

A couple of examples are the words "a," "the," "at," "of," and "on".

Common to all of these words is that they provide little to no value in terms of relevance.

Consider a search on Google, for instance.

It’s quite unlikely that any of these words are going to affect a web page’s relevance  to your query.

They are of course important words in the English language, but they provide little  to no value in the context of relevance scoring.

As a result, it’s a fairly common approach to remove these words during text processing.

Doing so used to be more popular than it is today, at least in the context of Elasticsearch.

The reason is that the relevance algorithm that is used by Elasticsearch has become much  better at limiting how much stop words influence search results.

That’s why I generally don’t recommend that you remove stop words.

It is also not the default behavior, as the "standard" analyzer does not remove them.

That being said, let’s see how removing stop words would affect the sentence from  before.

As you can see, the words "of" and "on" would be removed.

Now that you know what stemming and stop words are, let’s see how analyzers are used when  searching for documents.

