# Updating analyzers

Sometimes you might have an existing analyzer that you want to update.

As with mapping, you should try to get it right the first time to save yourself from some additional work, but things change sometimes.

In this lecture, I am going to show you how to update an existing analyzer.

For that purpose I have prepared a number of queries in advance, because you have seen them all before.

We have an index with a custom analyzer, but we haven’t used it within a field mapping yet, so let’s do that first.

## Add `description` mapping using `my_custom_analyzer`
```
PUT /analyzer_test/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "description": {
      "type": "text",
      "analyzer": "my_custom_analyzer"
    }
  }
}
```
Particularly, let’s add a "description" field that uses the analyzer named "my_custom_analyzer".

An index is not much fun without any documents in it, so let’s index a document.

## Index a test document
```
POST /analyzer_test/_doc
{
  "description": "Is that Peter's cute-looking dog?"
}
```
Next, I have a fairly simple search query that searches the "description" field for the term "that".

There is one unusual thing about this query, though; it specifies an analyzer.

2022-09-19_04-46

By default, the analyzer from the "description" field’s mapping would be used to analyze the query, being the analyzer named "my_custom_analyzer".

Analyzing the query with this particular analyzer, would remove the word "that" from the query, causing us to essentially search for nothing.

That’s because the analyzer is configured to remove stop words.

This default behavior is overridden when specifying the "analyzer" parameter.

The "keyword" analyzer is then used instead, which essentially means that the search query will be left intact.

Our example document was indexed using the custom analyzer, and so stop words were removed.

The term "that" therefore doesn’t appear within the inverted index for the "description"field.

You can see the inverted index to the right.

So what’s the point of this?

Specifying the "keyword" analyzer is a trick to avoid removing stop words from the query, because we actually want to know if the document contains the term "that".

You will see why in a moment.

Sorry if this got a bit confusing, but hopefully it will all make sense in a moment.

If we run the query, we should see that no documents are matched.

That’s because we are searching for the term "that," which is a stop word, and hence it was removed when indexing the document.

In other words, that’s to be expected.

Let’s now actually get to updating the analyzer.

We do that with the Update Index Settings API as you have already seen.

We just specify the full analyzer as if it didn’t already exist.

## Search query using `keyword` analyzer
```
GET /analyzer_test/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "description": {
        "query": "that",
        "analyzer": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
In the query that you see, I have removed the "stop" token filter,  because I no longer want to remove stop words.

As when adding a new analyzer to an index, we need to close the index before we can modify the analyzer.

## Close `analyzer_test` index
```
POST /analyzer_test/_close
```

Now that the index has been closed, we are ready to update the analyzer.

## Update `my_custom_analyzer` (remove `stop` token filter)
```
PUT /analyzer_test/_settings
{
  "analysis": {
    "analyzer": {
      "my_custom_analyzer": {
        "type": "custom",
        "tokenizer": "standard",
        "char_filter": ["html_strip"],
        "filter": [
          "lowercase",
          "asciifolding"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```
That was the only modification we needed to do, so let’s reopen the index.

## Open `analyzer_test` index
```
POST /analyzer_test/_open
```
Just to prove to you that the analyzer has indeed been updated, let’s quickly retrieve the index’ settings.

## Retrieve index settings
```
GET /analyzer_test/_settings
```

Indeed we can see that the analyzer no longer contains the "stop" token filter.

Let’s now index another document with the same value as the first one, so I will just run the same query again.

## Index a test document
```
POST /analyzer_test/_doc
{
  "description": "Is that Peter's cute-looking dog?"
}
```

Running the search query again should give us a different result compared to the first time we ran it.

## Search query using `keyword` analyzer
```
GET /analyzer_test/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "description": {
        "query": "that",
        "analyzer": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
This time around one document is matched, being the one we just indexed.

What happened was that the second document was indexed with the updated analyzer which did not remove any stop words.

As a result, the inverted index for the "description" field does contain the term "that," unlike for the first document.

Hopefully that makes sense, but it also raises a red flag.

Our index now contains documents that were analyzed in two different ways, which can lead to a number of issues.

Search queries will use the latest version of the analyzer by default, but some documents were analyzed using the old version.

That can lead to quite unpredictable search results.

In this example, two documents contain the same value for the "description" field within the "_source" object, but only one matches the query.

That’s probably not what you would expect if you were unaware that the analyzer had been changed after indexing documents.

We therefore need to handle this to avoid causing ourselves some massive headaches.

We could reindex documents into a new index, causing them to be analyzed with the new analyzer.

There is a simpler approach, though; using the Update By Query API, which you hopefully remember from earlier in the course.

Besides updating documents with a script, this API can actually be used for a different purpose as well; reindexing values.

That’s what we need in this case, because we want the first document to be reindexed with the updated analyzer in place.

We can simply do that with the last query that I have prepared.

## Reindex documents
```
POST /analyzer_test/_update_by_query?conflicts=proceed
```
It reindexes all documents since no "query" parameter is specified.

It’s possible to limit the scope of the query to specific documents, but we don’t do that now.

Let’s run the query.

The results state that two documents were updated.

Let’s now run the search query again.

And there we go!  Both documents now match the query, because the first document that we indexed has now been analyzed using the updated analyzer.

Apart from simply updating an analyzer, we took a quick detour to also discover a potential problem with doing so.

I wanted to show you that, because if we are not careful, updating analyzers can cause us all kinds of trouble.

Always try to get your analyzers right the first time, i.e. before indexing documents.

Sometimes it is perfectly valid to have to change the configuration of an analyzer, though.

You just need to handle the situation appropriately and everything should be fine.

