In this lecture I will show you how to set up Elasticsearch and Kibana on macOS and Linux.

If you are using Windows, please continue to the next lecture.

Both Elasticsearch and Kibana are just archives that need to be extracted, resulting in two directories on our file system.

That’s all — there are no applications to install, files in exotic directories, or anything like that.

Two self contained directories. Simple.

Both Elasticsearch and Kibana have a couple of dependencies, which are shipped within the archives.

For example, Elasticsearch is built with the Java programming language.

Instead of requiring you to install Java on your machine, Elasticsearch ships with OpenJDK so you don’t have to do anything.

Likewise, Kibana uses Node.js for its web server, which is also bundled within the archive.

Alright, let’s get to business!

The first thing you need to do is to download both Elasticsearch and Kibana for your platform.

Choose "aarch64" if you are on an ARM based CPU or "x86" otherwise.

I have attached the links to both download pages to this lecture for your convenience.

I have downloaded and extracted both archives in advance.

To extract the archives, simply double clicking them should do the trick.

Alternatively you can use the following commands.

When the archives have been extracted, open a Terminal and change your working directory to the root of the Elasticsearch directory.

Use the "cd" command for that, which you are hopefully familiar with.

Note that I renamed the extracted directories because their names include the platform and version.

Simply adjust the directory name to match what it’s named on your file system.

To start up Elasticsearch, we just need to enter a super simple command.

Simply type bin/elasticsearch.

This invokes a script named "elasticsearch" within the "bin" directory.

That was easy, right?

Elasticsearch is now starting up and performing various initialization tasks.

This may take a minute or two, so I will just do a bit of time traveling.

Alright, it’s the future me speaking.

Elasticsearch has now fully started up and is ready for business.

A couple of things were configured for us automatically, one of which is various security measures.

The first one is that a superuser was created with a password, which you can see within the terminal output.

You might have to scroll a bit to find it.

Elasticsearch is secured with this user, so anytime we communicate with Elasticsearch, we need to provide its credentials.

So go ahead and save the password, because you will need it a bit later.

We can create other users with more granular permissions for improved security, but let’s go with the default security settings for now.

If for some reason you lose the password — or if you forget to save it — you can always reset it with the following command.

Apart from creating a superuser, TLS certificates are also generated for both internal and external communication.

This means that data is encrypted when being transferred within Elasticsearch itself, and also when we communicate with Elasticsearch over HTTP.

This includes Kibana, which uses Elasticsearch’s REST API under the hood.

A so-called enrollment token is also created for us, which we will need for setting up Kibana.

This token is essentially a way of ensuring that Kibana can communicate securely with Elasticsearch.

The token is valid for 30 minutes, but a new one can be created with the following command if you need it.

Alright, now that Elasticsearch is all set up, let’s turn our attention to Kibana.

First, open up a new terminal window and set the working directory to the extracted Kibana directory Before starting up Kibana, we need to take care of one thing.

This is a macOS specific thing, so if you are using Linux, simply skip this step.

macOS has a security mechanism called Gatekeeper, which enforces code signing and verifies downloaded applications before allowing them to run.

This affects Kibana’s ability to run on macOS, so we need to disable Gatekeeper for the Kibana directory.

To do that, we need to go to the parent directory and run a command.

I will just type in the command.

You can find it within the GitHub repository if you want to copy it.

The last argument is the name of the Kibana directory, so be sure to change that if needed.

Alright, that’s that.

Let’s go back to the Kibana directory and start up Kibana.

To do that, simply type in bin/kibana and hit Enter.

After a short moment, the Kibana web server is ready on port 5601.

We need to do a bit of configuration, so let’s open up the URL that is output within the terminal.

This URL includes a token for security purposes, so that’s why we need to copy it.

Kibana immediately prompts us to do some configuration.

All we really need to do is to paste in the enrollment token that was output when starting up Elasticsearch, so let’s head back to the terminal to grab it.

This token contains various information that Kibana needs to connect securely to Elasticsearch, meaning that we don’t have to configure things manually.

So we just need to paste in the token and hit the button.

Alright, Kibana is now done setting things up.

As part of this process, it wrote a couple of things to its configuration file for us.

That makes our lives much easier, and our Elastic Stack deployment more secure.

Good stuff!

Since our deployment is secured, we need to authenticate to proceed.

We just set things up, so we only have one user, namely the "elastic" superuser.

A password was generated automatically when we started up Elasticsearch, so let’s head back to the terminal to copy it.

Alright, we’re in!

That’s all it takes to set up both Elasticsearch and Kibana.

If you want to shut down Elasticsearch and Kibana at some point, simply press the CTRL and C keys simultaneously within the respective terminal windows.

Anyway, we are now ready to get started, so I’ll see you in the next lecture.

