In this lecture I will show you how to set&nbsp; up Elasticsearch and Kibana on Windows.

Both Elasticsearch and Kibana are just&nbsp; archives that need to be extracted,&nbsp;&nbsp;

resulting in two directories on our file system.&nbsp; That’s all — there are no applications to install,&nbsp;&nbsp;

files in exotic directories, or anything like&nbsp; that. Two self contained directories. Simple.

Both Elasticsearch and Kibana have a couple&nbsp; of dependencies, which are shipped within&nbsp;the archives.

For example, Elasticsearch is&nbsp; built with the Java programming language.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Instead of requiring you to&nbsp; install Java on your machine,&nbsp;&nbsp;

Elasticsearch ships with OpenJDK&nbsp; so you don’t have to do anything.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Likewise, Kibana uses Node.js for its web&nbsp; server, which is also bundled within the archive.

Alright, let’s get to business!

The first thing you need to do is to download both&nbsp; Elasticsearch and Kibana for your platform.

I have attached the links to both download&nbsp; pages to this lecture for your convenience.

I have downloaded and extracted both archives&nbsp; in advance. To extract the Kibana archive,&nbsp;&nbsp;

you probably have to use something other&nbsp; than the built-in Windows unzipper.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Otherwise you might run into an issue&nbsp; because one of the file paths is too long.&nbsp;&nbsp;

I did encounter that issue and have seen&nbsp; others run into it as well. To work around it,&nbsp;&nbsp;

I unzipped the archive using 7-Zip, but most&nbsp; other software should be able to handle this.

When the archives have been extracted,&nbsp; open up the Command Prompt and&nbsp;&nbsp;

change your working directory to the&nbsp; root of the Elasticsearch directory.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Use the "cd" command for that, which&nbsp; you are hopefully familiar with.

Note that I renamed the extracted directories&nbsp; because their names include the platform and&nbsp;&nbsp;version.

Simply adjust the directory name to&nbsp; match what it’s named on your file system.

To start up Elasticsearch, we just&nbsp; need to enter a super simple command.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Simply type "bin\elasticsearch.bat".&nbsp;&nbsp;

This invokes a script named&nbsp; "elasticsearch.bat" within the "bin" directory.

That was easy, right? Elasticsearch is&nbsp;now starting up and performing various&nbsp;initialization tasks

This may take a minute or&nbsp; two, so I will just do a bit of time traveling.

Alright, it’s the future me&nbsp;speaking. &nbsp;

Elasticsearch has now fully started up and is ready for business.

A couple of things were configured for&nbsp; us automatically, one of which is various&nbsp;&nbsp;

security measures. The first one is that&nbsp; a superuser was created with a password,&nbsp;&nbsp;

which you can see within the output. You&nbsp; might have to scroll a bit to find it.&nbsp;&nbsp;

Elasticsearch is secured with this user, so&nbsp; anytime we communicate with Elasticsearch,&nbsp;&nbsp;

we need to provide its credentials.&nbsp; So go ahead and save the password,&nbsp;&nbsp;

because you will need it a bit later. We&nbsp; can create other users with more granular&nbsp;&nbsp;

permissions for improved security, but let’s&nbsp; go with the default security settings for now.

If for some reason you lose the&nbsp; password — or if you forget to&nbsp;&nbsp;

save it — you can always reset&nbsp; it with the following command.

Apart from creating a superuser, TLS&nbsp; certificates are also generated for both&nbsp;&nbsp;

internal and external communication. This means&nbsp; that data is encrypted when being transferred&nbsp;&nbsp;

within Elasticsearch itself, and also when&nbsp; we communicate with Elasticsearch over HTTP.&nbsp;&nbsp;

This includes Kibana, which uses&nbsp; Elasticsearch’s REST API under the hood.

A so-called enrollment token is also created for&nbsp; us, which we will need for setting up Kibana.&nbsp;&nbsp;

This token is essentially a way of&nbsp; ensuring that Kibana can communicate&nbsp;&nbsp;

securely with Elasticsearch. The&nbsp; token is valid for 30 minutes,&nbsp;&nbsp;

but a new one can be created with&nbsp; the following command if you need it.

Alright, now that Elasticsearch is all set&nbsp; up, let’s turn our attention to Kibana.

First, open up a new Command Prompt and set the working directory to the extracted Kibana directory.

Starting up Kibana is as simple&nbsp; as starting up Elasticsearch,&nbsp;&nbsp;

so all we need to do is to type&nbsp; in "bin\kibana.bat" and hit Enter.

After a short moment, the Kibana&nbsp; web server is ready on port&nbsp;&nbsp;5601.

We need to do a bit of configuration,&nbsp; so let’s open up the URL that is output.&nbsp;&nbsp;

This URL includes a token for security&nbsp; purposes, so that’s why we need to copy it.

Kibana immediately prompts us to do some&nbsp; configuration. All we really need to do&nbsp;&nbsp;

is to paste in the enrollment token that&nbsp; was output when starting up Elasticsearch,&nbsp;&nbsp;

so let’s head back to the&nbsp; Command Prompt to grab it.

This token contains various information that&nbsp; Kibana needs to connect securely to Elasticsearch,&nbsp;&nbsp;

meaning that we don’t have&nbsp; to configure things manually.

So we just need to paste in&nbsp; the token and hit the button.

Alright, Kibana is now done setting things up.&nbsp;&nbsp;

As part of this process, it wrote a couple&nbsp; of things to its configuration file for us.&nbsp;&nbsp;

That makes our lives much easier, and our&nbsp; Elastic Stack deployment more secure. Good stuff!

Since our deployment is secured,&nbsp; we need to authenticate to proceed.&nbsp;&nbsp;

We just set things up, so we only have&nbsp; one user, namely the "elastic" superuser.

A password was generated automatically&nbsp; when we started up Elasticsearch,&nbsp;&nbsp;

so let’s head back to the&nbsp; Command Prompt to copy it.

Alright, we’re in! That’s all it takes&nbsp; to set up both Elasticsearch and Kibana.

If you want to shut down Elasticsearch&nbsp; and Kibana at some point,&nbsp;&nbsp;

simply press the CTRL and C keys simultaneously&nbsp; within the respective Command Prompt windows.

Anyway, we are now ready to get started,&nbsp; so I’ll see you in the next lecture.

About this course
Learn Elasticsearch from scratch and begin learning the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash & Kibana) and Elastic Stack.