# Specifying the result format

In this section of the course, we'll be looking at how to control the query results in various ways.

We'll start out simple by going through how to format the results as why HTML instead of JSON and how to make the results pretty in the case of JSON.

Feel free to skip this lecture if that's not something interesting to you, but I want to show you how to do it anyways in case you're interested.

First, let's see how to make Elasticsearch return.

Why HTML instead of JSON?

I have already prepared a simple query, so all we need to do is to add a query parameter named format with a value of why a html.

So let's do that.

## Returning results as YAML

```
GET /recipe/_search?format=yaml
{
    "query": {
      "match": { "title": "pasta" }
    }
}
```
Formats equals y a m l and let's run the query.

And as you can see, we get via email back next.

Let's see how to format the JSON that Elasticsearch returns so that it's easy to read for humans.

But what do I mean by that?

You might think because doesn't it already look good and easy to read?

It does.

But that's only because we've been running queries within console, because it does this for us automatically.

After all, it's a graphical user interface, so it's very convenient that it does this for us.

If we run the query within the terminal, however, we'll see that the results are not formatted in a very human, readable way.

What I'll do is to copy the query as curl and then modify it within the text editor.

I do that because I have to change the host name to local host instead of Elasticsearch.

That's just because I'm running Elasticsearch and Cabana within Docker containers, and Cabana uses a hostname of Elasticsearch to communicate with the cluster.

Anyways, let's copy the query as curl and I'll just open the text editor and all I have to do is to replace Elasticsearch with localhost.

You don't need to do this if you not running Elasticsearch within a docker container.

And I'll also get rid of the format parameter right here.

Then I'll copy this and open up a terminal and paste it in and hit enter.

As you can see, the results don't look pretty at all and it's not easy to see what's going on here.

Let's go back to the text editor and add a curve parameter named Purdy to the code request.

So I'll just add a question mark and type pretty.

We don't actually need to give this query parameter a value, so let's make a copy of this again and go back.

I'll just clear the terminal and paste the query and again hit enter and now everything is way easier to read.

Of course this is not useful if we're working within Cabana's console, but you might be in a scenario where you are hacking away in a terminal, perhaps in an environment where you don't have cabana available.

Perhaps you're debugging a production cluster from the command line or something like that.

Whatever the case, you now know how to make the response pretty.

You should only do this for debugging because it's much more resource intensive, but I guess that goes without saying.

