In this lecture, I want to show you how to control which parts of the underscore source field that are returned for each of the matches for search query.

By default, the whole contents of the field are returned, but you might not always want that to be the case.

The motivation for limiting what is returned for the underscore source field would usually be to reduce the amount of data that's returned and thereby transferred on the network.

So usually the motivation is to improve performance.

You might not even notice a difference for small applications, but for applications with a lot of throughput, it can definitely be something that's worth tuning, especially if you have long text fields.

Alternatively, you can disable the underscore source field altogether if you don't need it at all.

This is useful if you just want to use Elasticsearch for searching and finding the IDs of documents which you could then use to retrieve the items from some other data store.

Let's see how to do that, first of all.

So I've added a simple match query in advance, and all we need to do is to add a parameter named underscore source and said it's a false.

So we'll do this at the top level of the query or rather the request body.

So here underscore source and now specify false as the value.

So let's run the query and see what it looks like.

And as we can see within the results, there is no underscore source key for the matches.

We can also specify the name of one field that we would like to return.

Or alternatively, an array of field names.

So let's try that.

I'll try a single field first and I will use the created fields.

Let's run it.

And now you can see that we only get the created field in return.

For objects and nested properties, we can specify the key path for fields.

So if we just want to include the name field within the ingredients object, then we can specify that by writing ingredients dot name.

So let's do that ingredients dot name like.

So let's run it.

And now we can see that we only get the name property back for each object within the ingredients array.

Alternatively, we can make use of wild card patterns and match all keys within an object.

So I can add an asterisk right here and it will match all properties within the object stored within the ingredients array.

Let's run it.

And now we get all of the properties in return.

Like I said earlier, we can also specify an array of field names.

Let's include all keys within the ingredients object and also the entire servings objects.

So let's define an array here, an array of strings and first specify ingredients dot asterisk and then the servings field.

Okay.

So let's run it.

And check the results so we get the entire ingredient subjects back.

And we also get the entire savings objects in return.

Last but not least, we can change the underscore source parameter to an object with the includes and exclude key for complete control.

Suppose that we wanted to include all of the keys within the ingredients objects except the name fields.

Let's define that.

So let's get rid of what we had already and add an object for the underscore source parameter instead with an includes property.

All adds an s here.

And here I will specify ingredients dot asterisk to include all fields and then add an excludes parameter here where I will exclude ingredients that name.

Let's run it.

And now we can see that the name property is no longer returned for each object within the ingredients field.

This example doesn't make so much sense because we only have two keys within the ingredients object, but I'm sure you can imagine that it could be useful for objects with many keys.

So that's how you can limit the amount of data that's returned from a search query.

If you have experience with relational databases, then you can think of filtering the underscore source field like this as the equivalent of specifying which columns a query should return between the selects and from keywords.

