In this quick lecture, I want to show you how to control the maximum number of hits that are returned from a search query.

You can do this in one of two ways by adding a size query parameter to the request UI, or by adding a size parameter within the request body when using the query.

Dstl.

Let's begin with the query parameter.

I have already added a simple query in advance that matches eight documents.

I have set the underscore source parameter to false just so that is easier for us to see how many matches are returned.

So to specify how many matches we want in return, simply add a size query parameter.

So I'll set it to two running the query.

Now we can see that only two matches are returned.

We can also see that the total key still contains the total number of matches which is useful for pagination.

It's really that easy to control the size of the results.

Let's do the same thing.

But this time we have a parameter within the request body.

For that I'll make a copy of the current query and then adjust it so I'll paste it in down here.

And get rid of this square parameter because now I want to specify the size within the request body.

So let's add a size parameter right here and set it to two this time as well.

So if I run it, we of course, still get the same results as before.

Before ending this lecture, I just want to mention that the default result size is ten, so you only need to use the size parameter if you want a different number of hits to be returned.

