# Specifying an offset

You just saw how to specify the maximum number of hits returned by a query.

But what about retrieving the next page of results?

If the size parameter is set to ten, it's likely that we want to retrieve the next ten results at some point.

To do this, we can use an offset indicating the number of matches to skip before returning the matches.

The combination of the size parameter and an offset then creates a sliding window enabling you to implement pagination.

We do this by specifying a frame parameter which defaults to zero, as with the size parameter.

This parameter can be specified either as a query parameter or as a parameter within the request body.

I'll be doing the latter in this lecture.
## Specifying an offset with the `from` parameter

```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "_source": false,
  "size": 2,
  "from": 1,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": "pasta"
    }
  }
}
```
So let's begin by adding a frame parameter to the query from the previous lecture with an initial value of zero.

That's the default value.

So this is really redundant, but we'll of course be changing the value.

So let's add this parameter named from and specify zero as the value.

And let's just run the query for good measure.
```
{
  "took" : 8,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 9,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0835493,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "recipe",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "18",
        "_score" : 0.8755694,
        "_ignored" : [
          "description.keyword",
          "steps.keyword"
        ]
      },
      {
        "_index" : "recipe",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "13",
        "_score" : 0.8229182,
        "_ignored" : [
          "steps.keyword"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}

```
So this query is no different than if we had not specified a frame parameter because it just retrieves the first two hits to retrieve the next two hits.

We can simply change the value of the from parameter to two.

So let's do that.
```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "_source": false,
  "size": 2,
  "from": 2,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": "pasta"
    }
  }
}
```
And run the query again.
```
{
  "took" : 1,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 9,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0835493,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "recipe",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "13",
        "_score" : 0.8229182,
        "_ignored" : [
          "steps.keyword"
        ]
      },
      {
        "_index" : "recipe",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "19",
        "_score" : 0.8229182,
        "_ignored" : [
          "steps.keyword"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
So we just retrieved the first two pages of search results to retrieve the third page.

We would just change the from parameter to for.

If you have experience with relational databases, then you can think of the size parameter as the equivalent of the limit clause in SQL.

The firm parameter is equivalent to the offset clause in a scroll, and the combination of the two is equivalent to my skills limit clause that contains both a row limits and an offset.

You've already seen how to use the size and from parameters to retrieve a specific number of documents at different offsets, which is the same approach that we need to use for implementing pagination.

We haven't talked about these two parameters directly in the context of pagination, so let's do that in the next lecture.

