So we the two parameters that we need in order to implement pagination of search results.

We covered them without really putting them in the context of pagination.

So let's do that now.

This lecture does not provide any new information in regards to Elasticsearch, but just shows how the two parameters that we just discussed can be used to implement pagination in an application.

So post, are we implementing a pagination control on a website or in any other kind of application?

To do that, we need to know the number of search result pages that are available.

This is something that you need to calculate at the application level based on the size parameter that you specify and the total number of hits that Elasticsearch returns.

The calculation is as simple as dividing the number of hits by the page size, i.e.

the size parameter.

It's important to round up to the nearest integer in case there is a remainder for the division.

I've done this in the calculation by specifying a single function which you might have seen from various programming languages.

An example could be that we have 137 hits with a page size of ten.

This division yields 13.7, which we round up to 14, which is then the number of total search result pages to actually go from one page to another.

We need to specify different parameters apart from the size parameter.

We need to calculate that offset.

You could just pass the offset around in the application, but usually you would want to use a page number and then calculate the offset based on that.

To calculate the offset, you subtract the page number by one and multiply that with the page size.

So if we have a page size of ten and a page number of six, the offset would be 50.

This is all something that's calculated at the application level because Elasticsearch just needs the size and from parameters to do its job.

Let's go through a quick example with a page size of two.

We have the documents, 1 to 10 at the top and the pagination control with page numbers at the bottom.

The front parameter is zero initially and then increases by two for every page according to the formula that you just saw.

So it increases by the page size for each page.

As you can see, this is essentially a sliding window that moves through the search results based on the page number and thereby the size and from parameters.

Later in the course, you'll see how to do this in an example application.

You should know that this approach is limited to 10,000 results.

The reason for this is that when performing deep pagination requests take up more and more heap memory and requests take longer.

That's why there is a limit of 10,000 acting as a safeguard so you don't end up affecting the stability of your cluster.

Typically, this is not an issue because users are highly unlikely to navigate deeper than the first couple of pages.

But it may be an issue if you need search engines to crawl deeper.

If you need something like that, then you can use a parameter named search or underscore after.

This is a bit more complicated and what I want to get into now.

So I've attached a link to the documentation to this lecture.

Apart from this limitation, I also want to briefly mention how this pagination technique works well, or perhaps how it doesn't work.

If you have worked with relational databases before, then you might be used to working with so called cursors.

The basic idea is that you have an open cursor within the database, which you can then use to scroll through search results.

This is not the way it works when using the size and front parameters in Elasticsearch.

Elasticsearch handles the search query and when it returns the results, it's completely done with it.

At this point, there is nothing left open within the cluster.

No cursors or anything like that.

Each query is therefore stateless.

Apart from some differences in regards to performance.

There is one difference that's worth noting.

Specifically, if documents are added, deleted or modified.

So post that a user searches for something and gets 100 hits.

The user stays on the first page for a minute and then navigates to the second page.

In the meantime, a new document was added that relates well to the query, placing it on the first page.

The user will now see a search result on the second page, which he or she already saw on the first page.

This is just an example.

There could be other scenarios when modifying or deleting documents.

The point is that since each search query is stateless, the results are always based on the latest data and not the data.

And that was available when running the first query.

This is different from a cursor which keeps growing through the results from the point in time where the cursor was opened, meaning that any data changes do not affect a cursor.

Like I said, there is also some differences in terms of performance, but that's another story.

You might not experience this depending on how many queries your Elasticsearch cluster handles and how often documents are added, removed or modified each.

I just wanted to mention it so that you're aware of it.

