We've looked at how to write various queries and how to deal with pagination, but we haven't looked at how to sort results well until now.

Sorting results is quite easy in Elasticsearch, and it's pretty much the same deal as sorting rows with the order by clause in relational databases.

So as you know, I'm a lazy person and that includes cooking too.

Therefore, I want to find the recipes that take the least time.

So I want to order results by the preparation, underscore time, underscore minutes, fields in a standing order.

I already have a query prepared that matches all documents.

It doesn't return any fields from the underscore source metal fields, which you will see why in a moment.

First, let's define how the hits should be sorted within the sort parameter.

The default sort order is a ascending, so all we need to do is to specify the name of the field that we want to sort by.

So let's do that.

I'll do it below the query key here.

So sorts.

And as you can see, it should be an array.

They would just get rid of this, first of all, because now I just want to start with the simplest possible syntax being an array of strings.

So I'll add a string for the preparation time minutes field.

So I'm just entering the field name here and let's run it and looking at the results.

Notice how we have a new key named source.

This key contains an array of the values that the results were sorted by.

In this case, that's the values for the Operation Time Minutes field.

That's why I excluded the underscore source metal field from the results, because we can see the values within this new array.

Next, I want to show you how to specify the sort order, because I want to find the latest recipes, meaning sorting by the created field in descending order.

So what I'll do is to make a copy of the existing query, paste it down here, and then adjusted accordingly.

I'll also update the underscore source parameter here.

So include the creative fields.

You'll see why in a moment.

And then let's go down here.

Get rid of what we already had within the solar array and enter an object instead of a string.

Within this object, I'll add a key with the name of the fields being created, and for the value I will enter the sought direction where I can enter a ESI for scanning or DSC for the scanning.

Let's run it.

And now we see the newest recipes first within the results.

The reason I included the creative field within the underscore source method field is because in the case of date fields, the sort key includes a number.

This number represents the number of milliseconds since the epoch.

So basically a Unix time stamp multiplied by 1000.

This is the representation that Elasticsearch uses for dates internally and in this case for sorting.

But I just wanted to include the date so it's easier for us to read next.

Let's try to sort by multiple fields, as in SQL and many other technologies.

This is indeed possible, but I probably gave that away already by specifying an array for the sort parameter.

You don't have to do that, by the way.

If you just want to sort by a single field in ascending order, then you can just specify the field name directly for the source parameter.

I just personally prefer to use an array.

Anyways, let's make a copy of the query and sort by another field.

What I'll do is to combine the two fields that we have sorted by in the first two queries.

So the idea is to start by the preparation time in a scanning order and the created timestamp in descending order just to make the results easier to interpret.

I'll add these two fields to the underscore source matter field.

So let's do that as the first string.

So I'll get rid of this and add an array here instead being an array of strings containing the field names.

So first preparation time minutes and then create it.

And let's now get to work on this parameter down here.

So since I want to sort by the preparation time in minutes, first I have to add an object above what we had already.

So the object is just going to be of the same structure and the order is going to be a scanning note that you don't have to define this explicitly, but that's just a preference of mine, so it's easy to see what's going on when reading the query.

Let's go ahead and run it.

So we only see the second sort order in effect when multiple documents have the same preparation time because those documents will then be sorted by the created timestamp.

So if we scroll down a bit, we'll find a bunch of recipes with a preparation time of 15 minutes.

Looking at the dates, we can see that the latest ones appear first.

So this is essentially the second sort order that we specified in action.

Also worth noting is that you can use a special field named on the score score to sort by score.

Since sorting by score is the default behavior, this only really makes sense when specifying a custom sort order.

Those were the basics of sorting in Elasticsearch.

That was pretty easy, right? But that's not all we can do with sorting.

So let's continue and look at what else we have in our toolbox in regards to sorting.

