Now that you know the basics of sorting results in Elasticsearch, let's look at something really cool sorting by multi value fields.

What this means is that we can sort by fields containing more than one value, such as the ratings field that we have for documents stored within the recipe index.

Remember that fields may contain more than one value by default, so we didn't define this in any mapping.

This particular field is of the type float and contains an array of ratings to sort by multi value fields.

We need to specify a sorting mode which can be one of five values.

Let's take a look at one of them and I'll tell you about the remaining ones afterwards.

So I have a simple query loaded up ready for us to apply a saddle to it.

In this example, I will sort by the recipes with the highest error rating so I can do this by first adding an object here.

For this order I want to sort on the ratings fields so I will define an object for this field.

The order will be descending.

I have the highest ratings first and then I can specify a mode.

So here I have a few options.

Average max min and sum.

You will see all of these later when we get to talking about aggregations.

For now, I'm interested in the error rating, so I'll specify AVG.

So what Elasticsearch does for us is to calculate the average rating based on the numbers within the array.

This is actually known as an aggregation which you may know from relational databases.

We haven't gotten into talking about aggregations in Elasticsearch yet, but we will get to that in the next section.

So what we're doing here is actually kind of a shortcut to aggregations besides the AVG mode.

You saw a couple of other options.

So we also have the sub mode available to us, which simply sums up the numbers.

There's also a median mode.

These free modes only apply to fields containing numeric values.

There are two more modes named Min and Max, which are not limited to numeric data types.

These modes use the lowest and highest value for sorting respectively.

Like I said, these two modes are not limited to numbers, so they work with dates as well.

That's it for Sodding.

Let's now move on to talking about something else.

