In this lecture, we're going to talk about filters, as you hopefully remember.

Queries can be run in two contexts in a query context and in the filter context.

The difference is the query is run in a query context, affect relevance and filter queries.

Don't Apart from documents having to match a query in the query context, the query also answers the question How well do the documents match filters? On the other hand, I just yes or no questions.

So filters do not affect relevance cause that's why you will typically use filters for number or date ranges and term queries, matching keyword fields such as a status field or something like that.

Does this remind you of something? We actually saw this when working with the pool query, more specifically when adding queries to the must underscore not objects.

These queries were run in a filter context.

Let's now do the opposite of the queries within the must underscore not objects, meaning to add queries that documents must match.

I'll actually be using the pool query again for this purpose.

In previous versions of Elasticsearch, filters were specified at the top level of the request body, but this is no longer the case.

Instead, a parameter named filter can be added to various queries, most notably the pool query.

So I have a simple query prepared in advance which simply matches recipes with the term pasta within the title field.

I guess you know that I'm lazy by now, so I want to get things done fast.

I'll therefore apply a filter requiring recipes to have a preparation time of maximum 15 minutes.

I'll do that by adding a range query within the filter parameter.

So let's see what that looks like.

So within this object at the same level of the most array here, I'll add a comma and specify a filter key and I'll add it as an array for the same reasons as the other keys within the pool query.

So here I'll add a query clause.

Being an object's, I'll use a range query.

Like I said, define that as an object as well and then define the field, which is preparation, underscore time, underscore minutes.

And this is an array as well.

Nothing new here.

This is just a standard range query.

So LC 15 meaning less than or equal to 15.

The reason I added this range query within the filter parameter is because Elastic Search wouldn't use the query for calculating relevant scores anyways, since it's a yes or no kind of thing.

So the match query affects relevance and arrange query dozens.

Although I added the query within the filter parameter, I could just as well have added it to the must underscore, not parameter with a small change.

In that case, I could just change the range query to match recipes with a preparation time of more than 15.

This is the same thing because query losses within both of these parameters.

I run in a filter context.

And that's how to add a filter.

So why didn't I mention that when talking about the pool query? Because filters are not specific to the pool query, even though I use that query in this example.

You can also use filters with aggregations and other queries that we're going to look at later.

That being said, you will typically add filters to pool queries because that's a very flexible and common query to use.

As a last thing, just a reminder of why you would want to use filters in the first place.

I already talked about how filters don't affect relevance, so there's that.

But filters are also more efficient.

That's because Elasticsearch will automatically cache filters that are used frequently, and we also save a bit of computation time when not having to calculate relevant scores.

