You previously saw how to search for phrases with the match phrase query.

When searching for phrases, each of the phrases terms must appear in exactly that order for document to match.

That's a pretty strict requirement.

So perhaps we want to relax that requirement a bit.

If we have the phrase spicy sauce, we might also want to match a document containing the terms spicy tomato sauce in that order.

So we might want to relax the constraint and allow for a number of terms in between the terms in the phrase that we're searching for.

That's what we'll be looking at in this lecture.

But first, let's back up a bit and talk about how the order of terms is stored.

As you know, text fields are analysed and part of the analysis process is to tokenize the text input.

When splitting the input into terms, the positions of the terms are also recorded and these are stored in the inverted index.

The phrase that's supplied for the match phrase query is also analysed.

Apart from just ensuring that the document contains the terms, the query also ensures that they appear in the correct order.

For that, it uses the term positions stored in the inverted index, which were added when analysing a given documents.

So for a document to match the phrase spicy sauce, both of the terms must appear in the field that we're searching.

The position of the term source must also be one greater than the position of the spicy term.

If these two conditions are met, then the document will match the phrase.

We can see this by running a match phrase query against a new index that I have created in advance.

It contains the documents that you see here.

So if you want to follow along, these are the queries you will need to run.

As always, you can find them within the GitHub repository.

So let's go ahead and run this match phrase query that I entered in advance.

There is nothing that you haven't seen here.

So if we run this match phrase query to match documents with the spicy sauce phrase, we only get one match.

Specifically the document with both of the two terms and in the correct order.

Suppose that we want to allow a term in between the spicy and sauce terms.

We can accomplish this by adding a parameter named slop for the match phrase query.

The value for this slop parameter should be an integer representing how far part terms are allowed to be while still being considered a match.

How far apart refers to how many times a term may be moved for a document to match? Let's see an example to make this more clear.

So I'll just add a slot parameter right here and set it to one and run the query again.

When we add this love parameter to the matrix query, it's referred to as a proximity search.

How close the terms that we specify in the query are together with the matching documents is referred to as proximity.

You could therefore say that we're searching for the term spicy and source within a proximity of one.

Checking the results, we can see that another document now matches the query.

More specifically, the document with a title of spicy tomato sauce.

This title contains another term between the terms that we specified in the phrase.

We allow this by adding the slot parameter with a value of one.

The document matches because the term source had to be moved once for the title to match.

Let's take a look at what happens with a simple table.

So we have the terms that the document contains and the positions in which the terms are stored within the inverted index within the query.

The term spicy is at position one and the term sauce is that position too.

All we need to do is to move the term sauce to position three for the document to match.

Any term may now be present at position two.

So all it took was a single move.

This satisfies a slot value of one, which allows a single move to be made to make a document much more formally.

The number of moves is referred to as the edit distance.

Let's try to increase the value of the slot parameter to two.

We now get another match.

An interesting one, actually.

Notice how the spicy and source terms are switched around within the title.

So why does that document match? The reason is that when using the slab parameter, we're allowing a number of moves to be made to terms or more formally, the edit distance.

As long as the edit distance does not exceed the value of the slub parameter, the terms may be arranged in any order.

What this basically means is the terms can be moved around a number of times, depending on the slot parameter, and as long as the terms appear within a proximity that does not exceed the slot parameter, we have a match.

So with the Slub parameter, no specific order of the terms is required, although a greater added distance is required for switching terms around.

I hope that made just a bit of sense and if not, hopefully it will after going through the example with a table as we did with the other query.

So we have the term sauce and spicy at the positions two and three respectively, and the query specifies the terms in the opposite order.

You might think that switching the terms around would involve a single move, i.e.

an edit distance of one.

That's not the case.

However, as an edit, distance of two is needed because we first need to move either the term spicy or the term sauce one position.

In this example, I've just moved to term spicy.

When doing this, the two terms share the same position and we need to move the term spicy once again.

So the order of the terms now match the order within the document because the edit distance being two is within the boundary specified by the slot parameter the document matches.

So switching terms around for documents to match is perfectly valid.

Had we specified a higher value for the slab parameter, it would be possible for one or more terms to be placed in between the two terms.

Anyways, the point is the terms may be moved around a number of times to match the document as long as the added distance does not exceed what we have specified for the slab parameter.

I hope that makes sense.

So how do we know which value to specify for the slab parameter? Well, there is of course, no definitive answer to that question because it really depends.

That's something you will tweak over time, either by trial and error or by testing it out on some data sets.

You should know that things were a bit simple in our examples because our phrase query only consisted of two terms.

In the real world, this won't always be the case.

So the value that you specify for the slot parameter is the maximum edit distance for all of the terms, not just between any two terms.

So the more terms you have, the higher you should probably set the slop.

The value really depends on the data and what kind of matching you're going for.

A decent idea would be to set the slob a bit higher than you otherwise would because the proximity affects relevant scores.

If including less relevant documents within the results is acceptable to you, then this might be a way to go.

These were the basics of adding flexibility to the match phrase query if you want to relax the requirement that all terms must appear in a sequence and in a particular order, then you can do so with the slab parameter.

