Let's take a look at the search results from the previous lecture and talk a bit about relevant scoring in the context of proximity searches.

Notice how the document where the terms spicy and sauce appear next to each other in the correct order is scored the highest.

That's because the proximity in which the terms appear affects the relevant scores.

The closer the proximity, the higher the relevant scores.

Another way of putting it is the lower the edit distance, the higher the relevant scores.

As you know, how relevant scores are calculated is not so simple.

So there is no guarantee that the documents with the terms have the lowest proximity are scored the highest.

That's because a number of other relevance factors are taken into account when calculating the relevant scores and the term proximity is just one of them.

So it does have an effect, but it's by no means the only factor used when calculating the relevant scores.

So don't expect the scores to necessarily reflect the term proximity.

Anyways.

Now that you know that the proximity affects the relevant scores, I want to show you a useful trick.

It's technically nothing that you haven't seen before, but it's quite useful nevertheless.

So by default, the match phrase query requires all terms to be present.

And in the order specified in the previous lecture, you saw how to make the arrangement of terms more flexible and less strict, which we did with the slot parameter.

But maybe we don't want to require all terms to be present because the relevant scoring algorithm favors documents where most of the terms appear anyways.

We can do that by using the match query, as you saw earlier in the course.

Nothing new about that.

But at the same time, we might want to boost documents based on the term proximity which the match phrase query does.

So how do we get the best of both worlds?

By combining the two queries within a pull query.

Let's begin with a pull query that only contains a match query.

So I'll make a copy of this and adjust it just to save some typing and enter a pull query here and a must array.

And within this array I'm going to add a match query clause, first of all, and I will search the title fields.

Change it to an object and specify the query as spicy source.

Simple enough.

Let's just run it.

So remember that the default boolean operator used for match query is or so.

Both terms are not required to be present within a document for it to be considered a match.

The more terms the present, the higher the relevant score.

Do also remember that you can specify the minimum number of terms that should be present with the minimum underscore underscore match parameter.

Taking a glance at the results.

Notice how there is some distance between the term spicy and source in the top hits.

We can do better than that.

The match query is required to match, but what we can also do is to place an optional match phrase query within the search objects.

Let's do that.

So apart from the mastery, I'll add a pseudo array here and add a query clause of the type match phrase again for the title field.

I'll change this to an object as well.

Specify a query and I'll specify the same query for this clause as well.

All right.

So what does this new query mean?

The match query must still match.

But this is not the case for the match phrase query.

This query is optional, but if it matches, it boosts the relevant score of matching documents.

We should be able to see this if we run the query.

As you can now see, the document with the two terms right next to each other received a significant relevance boost.

That's great in this particular example, but we can do better.

We are only boosting the relevance of documents where the two terms appear right next to each other.

But it would probably be a good idea to be a bit more flexible on that.

You already know how to do that by specifying a slab parameter since the match phrase career boost matches based on how well they match.

This means that we are boosting documents based on the term proximity, so by specifying a slab parameter, we will still see documents with the two terms close to each other at the top.

We're just using the term proximity as a relevant factor and boosting the documents where the two terms are close to each other.

Let's add a slab parameter of five.

Like so.

Let's run the query again.

And see if there's any difference.

So now we're giving a relevance boost to documents where the two terms appear in close proximity.

The same documents are matched regardless of whether or not we add the match phrase query or not.

By adding it, we're just affecting the relevant scores and favoring the documents containing the terms within the close proximity.

We didn't cover anything new in this lecture, but I just wanted to share this trip with you as it may be useful to you.

Before ending this lecture, I want to remind you that there are many factors involved with calculating relevant scores.

So this approach does not guarantee that documents with a close proximity are scored highest.

These documents do get a relevant boost, but there is no guarantee that matches are sorted by the proximity that really comes down to the documents that you have in your index.

So consider this approach a relevance factor that fits into the bigger picture and works together with the other relevance factors.

