Apart from adding the fussiness parameter to the Met's query, there is also a query that's dedicated to fussy queries.

Logically, this query is named fussy.

Let's see what the query looks like in action.

So like I said, the query is named fussy.

And let's search the name field and search for value of lobster in all capital letters.

And I'll add a first in this parameter of auto and note that this parameter is optional.

It defaults to auto, but I just wanted to add it explicitly.

Also I specified the value to search for and all uppercase layers.

That's just to simulate a user accidentally hitting the caps lock button or something like that.

Okay.

Running the query.

We don't get any matches.

Why is that? The reason is that there is a significant difference between the first decree and the Met query with a fuzziness parameter.

The Mets query is a full text query and the first query is a term level query.

As you know, this means that the first query is not analyzed.

Since we're searching a field that uses an analyzer with the lowercase token filter, our query does not match what stored within the inverted index.

Not only does it not match, but the edit distance required to make the terms match is too high.

Other than the fact that the query is not analyzed, the fuzziness part of it works exactly the same as you saw with the match query.

That's why I entered an uppercase term for the query, because this is very important to understand.

It's quite rare to search fields that are not analyzed with fuzzy queries, which is the reason why the match query with a fuzziness parameter is usually preferred over the first query.

If I change the query to a lowercase one, then you will see that we get the same matches as with the match query, including the product containing the term oyster.

So let's try just to verify that what I just said is true.

And let's scroll down to the bottom and verify that the product with the term oyster within this name field is matched.

So as you can see, the fuzzy query produces the same results as a match query in this example, but that might not always be the case.

If you do make use of the first query, then you have to keep in mind that the query is not analyzed.

So it's very easy to run into problems if you use the query on analyzed fields.

So unless you have a good reason for doing so, you should prefer using the match query with a fuzziness parameter.

