We talked a bit about synonyms earlier in the course, more specifically in a section about mapping.

What we didn't do, though, was to actually make use of them.

So that's what we'll be doing in this lecture.

I've added a query in advance which creates an index named synonyms with a mapping for a description field.

This mapping makes use of a custom analyzer, which in turn makes use of a custom token filter apart from the standard token ISO and the lowercase token filter.

This is all something you've seen before.

So the interesting part is the custom token filter, because that's where we'll be defining the synonyms.

So the type of the token filter is synonym and I have already added a synonyms parameter where we'll be adding an array of synonyms here.

We need to use a special syntax within strings.

So we're going to be working with an array of strings here.

The way we add synonyms is to specify terms that should be replaced with other terms.

Let's begin by defining that the term awful should be replaced by the term terrible.

Since these terms have the same semantic meaning, let me just enter the syntax within the string in the synonyms array and then explain it afterwards.

Okay.

So we have the term to be replaced on the left, followed by an arrow being an equals and a greater than sign.

The replacement is then added on the right hand side of the arrow.

So this line essentially means replace any occurrence of the term awful with the term terrible.

Before proceeding, I just want to mention how synonyms work in Elasticsearch.

Maybe you wondered why I said that a given term will be replaced by another one.

So if we replace the term awful with terrible, then what happens if we search for awful?

A document containing either of the two terms will match because remember the queries go through the exact same analysis process.

So if we were to run a match query against the description field, the query would also be analyzed with our custom analyzer.

Because of this, documents will still match, even though we're actually replacing terms within the inverted index.

I'll get back to how synonyms are stored in a moment.

Something important to remember is that term level queries are not analyzed, so don't try to combine term level queries and synonyms.

In theory you can, but it's probably not going to work out so well.

If we were to search for the term awful with a term level query, it wouldn't match anything because the term awful is not stored within the inverted index because it has been replaced with the terrible term.

Okay, so far so good.

We just defined our first synonym.

Let's add another one, but this time with a different syntax.

Suppose that we want to replace the term awesome with not one but two terms.

We can do that by separating multiple terms on the right hand side of the arrow.

So let me just add another string and enter the syntax.

So awesome.

Being the term to replace an arrow then great comma super.

So we're just separating the terms with a comma.

So what this means is that awesome will be replaced with both great and super within the inverted index.

When we talked about analyzers, I mentioned that the positions of terms is stored within the inverted index.

You already saw how this is used for proximity searches, but it's also used with synonyms.

What happens when we define multiple replacements for a term is that the terms are stored at the same position within the inverted index.

Suppose that we have a document where the term awesome appears at position five when the field is analyzed.

This term gets replaced by both the terms great and super.

These terms appear at the same position, so we effectively have two terms at position five.

This means that each position may contain one or more terms.

The reason for this behavior in regards to synonyms is that we still want to be able to perform proximity searches, even when making use of synonyms.

Remember that approximately search is a match phrase query with a slot parameter.

If Elasticsearch just inserted synonyms at new positions within the inverted index, it would effectively be messing up phrase queries.

We can also do kind of the opposite of the syntax you just saw.

That is to comma separate a number of terms to the left of the arrow instead of the right.

This replaces any of the terms to the left with the term specified to the right.

So let's do that.

So what I want to do is to replace Elasticsearch or lock, stash or cabana with the term yield key.

Notice how I insert everything in all lowercase letters?

There is a reason for that, which I'll get back to in just a second.

Yet another syntax is just to specify a comma separated list of terms.

Let's see an example of that with the weird and strange terms.

So I'll just enter weird comma.

Strange.

What this does is that both of the two terms would be placed at the same position, so no replacement happens with this approach.

Before proceeding, I just want to mention that the order in which you define token filters is important because they are run in the order they are specified.

The reason I mentioned this is that it has an impact on how you should define the synonyms.

Notice how I added the lowercase filter before the synonyms filter.

This means that the tokens our custom token filter receives are in all lowercase.

Because of this, we need to define the terms to be replaced in lowercase as well, because otherwise they wouldn't be matched because the matching is k sensitive.

Had I switched around the two token filters, synonyms would no longer work with capitalized inputs.

In that case, the token filter would potentially receive capitalized tokens and compare them with lowercase tokens which wouldn't match.

Also notice that I entered the replacement values in lowercase as well, particularly the term l k.

That's because I want all terms within the inverted index to be lowercase.

Alternatively, I could just have added the lowercase filter again after the synonym filter if I wanted to.

The point is that you should keep in mind where you replace the synonym filter.

The letter casing is just a simple example of how this could go wrong, but another example could be stemming.

You would want to place a synonym filter before stemming and generally as early as possible in the array.

With the exception of the lowercase filter.

Otherwise you'll need to account for all of the token filters when defining synonyms.

And that quickly gets hard to maintain when adding or removing token filters.

With that out of the way, let's run the query and then experiment a bit with the synonyms afterwards.

To test everything.

I'll be using the Analyze API that you saw earlier in the course.

First, I want to check what happens when analyzing the term.

Awesome.

So what I'll do is that I'll send a post request to the synonyms index.

And the underscore analyze API and use our custom analyzer, which was named my underscore analyzer matching what we entered above.

And specify a text being the term awesome.

Running the crude, we can see that the term is replaced by both great and super and that both of these terms are placed at position zero.

Let's take another of our synonym rules and analyze the term Elasticsearch.

So I'll make a copy of this just to keep our existing queries, and I'll change the text to Elasticsearch.

The results show that the term is replaced with the term l k.

Notice how the term is replaced even though I capitalized the term.

That's because the lowercase filter is run before the synonym filter, which I mentioned a moment ago.

Next up, let's try the term weird.

So I'll just make some spaces here, then paste in a query and write weird as the text.

Here.

We can see that both the term weird and the term strange are inserted at the same position.

No term is replaced according to the rule that we defined.

Let's now try to analyze a sentence and see what the results look like.

So again, I'll be pasting in a query.

Then let's enter a sentence.

I'll say.

Elasticsearch is awesome, but can also seem weird sometimes.

Looking at the results.

The term Elasticsearch has been replaced by l k at position two.

We have both the terms great and super which replaced the term awesome.

Scrolling down to the bottom, we can see that the terms, weird and strange, are placed at position seven.

You should now have a good understanding of how synonyms are stored within the inverted index.

So let's add a document with the sentence that we just analyzed.

So we'll just copy this sentence.

Then write a post query to the synonyms index and the default type.

I'll set the description to the sentence I just copied like so.

Let's edit and now we can run a few search queries against the index, beginning with a match query looking for the term greats.

All right.

So get synonyms.

Default type search API and match query for the description fields.

Searching for grades.

This query does match the document, even though the JSON that we sent to Elasticsearch didn't contain the term great.

This is, of course, because the term awesome was replaced with the terms great and super.

And since query search the inverted index, we get a match.

Okay, so I just mentioned that the term awesome has been replaced.

So what happens if we search for awesome?

We still want the document to match.

Let's take a look and see what happens.

So I'll make a copy of this query.

Paste it in down here.

And search for.

Awesome.

This query still matches the document.

That's great.

But why is that?

That's because when we send the query to Elasticsearch, it checks which field we are covering the description in this case.

It then uses the analyzer that's defined for that field or the standard analyzer if none is defined and uses it to analyze the search query.

At least that's the case for full text searches, as you know.

So the search query goes through the exact same analysis process as the document did.

So Elasticsearch does not look up the term awesome within the inverted index.

Instead, it uses the results of the analysis process, which involved replacing terms with synonyms.

This means that we are essentially searching the inverted index for the replacement values being both great and super.

This just happens for us behind the scenes, but it means that both the terms of replace and the replacement values can be matched.

This is clever because it means that Elasticsearch does not need to store all of the terms within the inverted index and thereby actually save some space.

And that's how you can use synonyms to improve your search queries.

This is a very powerful feature, and it's very easy to use an example of when you would want to use synonyms, compete to define that the words flats and apartments are the same thing.

