Did you ever notice how search engines highlight matching parts of a query within the results? You probably saw this on Google, Bing or whatever search engine you're using.

Elasticsearch can do this too by using something called a highlighter.

Let's just dive straight into an example.

I've added a test document to a new index in advance, which you can see at the top.

It just contains a description field, so there is nothing special about it.

Then I've added a simple match query in advance, which searches for Elasticsearch story within the description field.

It doesn't return the source document just to make the results easier to read.

What we can do is that we can add a highlight object at the top level of the request body.

So let's try to do that.

So highlights being an object.

Within this object, we must add a fields object containing the fields that we want to enable the highlighting for.

So fields also being an object.

And since we only have one field, this is going to be the description field.

So I'll add a key with that name.

So description.

I'll just leave the value as an empty object.

Within this object, we can configure the highlighting, but I'm not going to do that for now.

That's because highlighting is a huge topic on its own and things get pretty complicated.

There are a few different highlighters available which do highlighting in different ways.

Unless we specify otherwise, a highlighter named plane will be used, which is sufficient in most cases.

Anyways, let's run the query and look at the results.

For each match within the history.

We now have a new key named highlights.

This is an update containing the fields that we requested highlighting for in the request.

In this case, only the description field.

The description key then contains an array of the fragments that match the query.

The reason that we get an array back is, of course, the multiple paths or fragments of the description fields might match the query.

This is the case in this example because the term Elasticsearch appears both near the beginning and the end of the field.

Elasticsearch returns fragments because the fields might be very long.

Imagine if the field stored 5000 words for this document, displaying all 5000 words and highlighting a word at the beginning and ends would not make any sense.

Instead, notice how Elasticsearch returns fragments containing words before and after a matching term, which gives the user a bit of context.

Also, as you probably noticed by now, the highlights are enclosed within M tags, which is the case for both the story and Elasticsearch terms.

This enables you to easily find the matches at the application level if you want to do some processing or just display the fragments directly to the user.

But why do we even need Elasticsearch to wrap the matches with an IM text? Other than for our convenience, couldn't we just do this ourselves within our application code? No, not really.

Remember that Elasticsearch analyzes the query, which potentially involves handling synonyms and stemming, for instance, let's take synonyms, for example.

So post it.

We indexed a document containing the term happy and that we added a synonym of delighted for this term.

Searching for it would then match the document that contains the term happy, which you saw in an earlier lecture.

But what about the highlights? Elasticsearch handles this for us automatically because it highlights the original term at that position within the source documents.

What happens is the following Elasticsearch performs a lookup for the term deleted within the inverted index and finds a match because the description fields went through the analysis process.

In that process, the term happy was replaced by the term deleted within the inverted index, and that's why there is a match.

Remember that we would still get a match if we search for happy because the query is analyzed in the same way.

Remember how the inverted index contains the offsets for where the original term appeared within the source document.

So while the term deleted is stored within the inverted index, Elasticsearch stores the offsets of the corresponding term within the source document being the term happy.

This enables the highlighter to wrap the original term within the tag, even though it's an entirely different term.

So even when searching for the term deleted, the term happy will still be highlighted within the results.

Pretty cool, right? The same is the case with stemming and so forth.

The point is that how elastic search wraps matches within tags is more complicated than just doing string replacements.

So we really shouldn't try to mimic this behavior for whatever reason.

Anyways, that was just a bit of background knowledge, so I hope that made sense to you.

Otherwise don't worry about it because you can use highlighters perfectly fine without understanding what happens under the hood.

There is one more thing that I want to show you in this lecture how to wrap matches within a different tack that's done with the pre underscore text and post underscore text parameters.

So let's add these two parameters within the highlight objects.

First, the pre underscore text parameter.

I'll change it to an array.

Being an array of strings.

So let's say I want to use a strong tag instead of the M tag and then I can do the same for the post on the score tags parameter.

So here I just have to close the strong tag like.

So if we run this query again, we can see that the matches are now read within strong tags instead.

Those were the basics of highlighting matches in Elasticsearch.

Like I said, there are a number of configuration options and highlighters available, but much more than I can cover in this course.

If you need something more specific than what I covered in this lecture, then I encourage you to check out the documentation.

For your convenience, I have attached a link to this lecture.

