Apart from using Wild, there is another way in which we can dynamically match terms with regular expressions and the regex query.

Let's change the query from the previous lecture to use a regular expression instead.

So the first thing I'll need to do is to change the query type to regexp.

I'll still need the keyword mapping of the text field and I'll need to get rid of the question mark first of all.

And instead I'll enter a character class.

I'll match any alphabetic characters in both lowercase and uppercase, and I'll require at least one character to be present here.

So I'll enter a plus sign.

So this person uses a character class with a range of the alphabets letters, and at least one of these characters should be present.

So let's run the query.

And looking at the results, we can see that yet again.

Documents with the term vegetable in a text field match.

Writing regular expressions is outside the scope of discourse.

But I do want to mention that Elasticsearch uses LUCENE regular expression engine, which is not Perl compatible.

This means that some features are not supported, so you don't have access to the full regular expression syntax.

A couple of examples of what's not supported is character classes.

So just writing backslash D for numeric values and anchors.

Anchors are the current symbol and dollar sign indicating the beginning and end of a line or string.

Anchors would not be useful to us anyways as we're searching through terms, so the regular expression is being applied to the terms within the field and not the whole value of the field.

This is an important thing to remember when working with fields that contain multiple words, such as our name and description fields.

This is the nature of term level queries, so hopefully that doesn't come as too big of a surprise to you.

I won't go through all of the features that are supported and which are not, but I have attached a link to the documentation to this lecture.

That page gives a good and brief overview of what's available.

Lastly, as with wild card queries, I want to mention that you should keep performance in mind when using regular expressions within your queries.

How efficient the request query is depends a lot on the pattern that you write.

For example, try to limit use of wildcard patterns such as an asterisk within your patterns.

Using such wildcard patterns is not necessarily problematic, but when doing so, you should try to use as long a prefix before the wildcard as possible because this will heavily improve performance.

As with wildcard queries, you should always try to avoid including wildcards at the beginning of a pattern because that's really a performance killer.

And again, it's something that you might not notice so easily because the problem grows as you add more documents to an index.

But as long as you keep these things in mind when writing the patterns, then it should be good.

