Let's start out soft by searching for all documents having a value of true for the is active field.

We can do that with the term query clause which you've already seen before in the previous lectures.

So get products and defaults and use the search API and add a request body, then add a query key being an object where I'll add the term query.

So within this object I can configure the same query first the field I want to search being this active field and actually I can shorten this syntax and just specify the value directly instead of an object.

If I needed to configure the term query additionally, then I would have to specify an object as the value anyways.

Now I can just enter.

True.

Right here.

This query matches 487 documents, which is almost half of them queries with the query DSL also support a more verbose structure where the value for the field key is an object, like I just mentioned.

You can then add various options within this object for greater control and the value key for the value to search for.

You will see some of these options later.

But anyways, I want to show the other version as well.

You briefly saw it before, but let's add it again.

So value and the value to search for as the value for this key.

And let's run it.

And as you can see, it's the same thing.

This query does exactly the same as the first one you saw, but it allows for adding options to these active objects.

Like I said, more on that later.

It's, of course, also possible to search for terms within text fields.

Usually you would do this for enum, such as a status field containing either active, paused or disabled.

For instance, you would use to query for fields of the type keyword because these are not analyzed since term level queries are not analyzed either.

We would get predictable results when searching for exact matches.

You can use some level queries to search full text fields as well, but that's rarely a good idea because such fields are analyzed and the query isn't so.

If you do that, just make sure that you know what you're doing.

And that's the term query.

Again, you should use this query for exact matching.

So usually for searching number, field states or keyword fields.

