In this short lecture, I just want to quickly show you how to perform a search for multiple terms by using the terms query.

This is just the same characteristics as the term query only with the exception that is searches for multiple terms.

Instead of providing a single value.

We provide an array of values the document will match if it contains any of the supplied values within the field that we specify.

Remember how Elasticsearch maps each text field as both a full text field and a keyword field automatically.

Elasticsearch does this with dynamic mapping, and we did this manually ourselves earlier in the course.

Such fields are referred to as multi fields, which you may recall.

This is the case for the text field, for example.

So let's use that one.

Since we're using a term level query, we want to query the keyword mapping because we're looking for exact values.

Let's see that in action.

So as always, gets product defaults and search API.

A query object for the request body and the type of the query being terms, and the field will be text dot keyword to use the keyword mapping and here we can just enter the value.

So we want to search for as an array.

So an array of strings.

In this example, I'll search for soup and cake.

Within the search results, we can see the documents with the term cake are matched.

But as I scroll down, you'll also see documents containing the term soup within their text field.

And that's how easy it is to search for multiple terms at once, which is similar to the clause in SQL if you're familiar with relational databases.

