Apart from matching specific values for fuels, you can also match documents if a value is within a range.

Since we're dealing with products with our test data, we might want to find the documents that are almost out of stock because we should probably order more of those soon.

For this example, I would match the documents that have a value of between one and five for the in stock field, both values included.

So the query is named range and we'll be using the in stock field and I'll just specify one for the GT parameter and five for the LC parameter.

Apart from the GT and LC X, you can also use the GT and LC keys short for greater than and less than respectively.

So the GT and LC X mean greater than or equal to and less than an equal to respectively.

So let's run the query.

And as you can see, the installed field is between one and five in the matches.

You can use these keys for defining ranges, but you don't necessarily need to specify a lower and upper boundary for the range.

For instance, it would be perfectly valid to find all products with an in stock field of more than five without specifying a maximum value, i.e.

an upper boundary.

So you're free to use the four keys however you please without necessarily defining a range with both a lower and an upper boundary.

Apart from numbers, you can also use the range query with data fields.

So let's write a query that matches products that were added in the year 2010.

So I'll just make a copy of the existing query and paste it in down here and change the field through, create it, and then enter some dates for these two keys.

So I'll enter 2010 slash zero one, slash zero one being the 1st of January 2010 and 2010 slash 12 slash 31 marking the end of the year.

And let's run it.

So scrolling through the results, we can see the ten documents that are included were indeed added in 2010.

The date format I specified is the default one that Elasticsearch uses when you add document to an index.

But it's also possible to specify another format for the dates that you define within the query by adding a format key to the query.

This is useful if you need to specify dates in a different format within the query.

So let's try to do that.

So I'll add a new parameter here named formats and I will just get rid of this and enter for the day.

Dash Mm.

For the month.

Notice that there are capital M's and then a dash and free Y's representing the year before running the query.

We just need to adjust the dates that we supply because the dates that we specify for the GTI, LC, LC and GTI must satisfy the date format that we specify.

So I'll just have to move things around a little and replace the slashes with hyphens.

So let's say 0101 2010.

Like so.

And do the same for the other dates.

So 31 as today, 12 as the month and 2010 as the year.

And now let's try to run the query and we'll see that the same documents will be matched because Elasticsearch correctly handles the new date format because we specified it, and it will then use that format for matching documents, and that's all there is to using the range query.

