We just looked at the range query, including how to query dates.

But now I want to dive a little bit deeper into how we can work with dates when querying data.

Apart from specifying specific dates, we can also make use of relative dates also referred to as date math.

This is not something that's specific to the range query as date map can also be used within other parts of Elasticsearch as well.

But I will demonstrate how to use date math in the context of the range query.

For this purpose I have a simple range query loaded up which will be modifying with some date math.

The way we do this is to specify a date expression consisting of an anchor date.

First of all, the anchor point is the point in time they want to use as the basis for a date calculation, i.e. the starting point, so to speak.

This anchor dates can be in one of two formats the keyword now or a date string like the one we have in the range query now.

If we use the date string, then we need to add two trailing pipe symbols.

This is just to indicate the end of the anchor dates to help Elasticsearch out when passing the expression.

So it has nothing to do with the logical or as in programming languages.

So let's add those pipes to the dates.

Like so.

So just to clarify this part, right here is the anchor dates.

What comes next is the special form of math expression in which we can make use of date and time units being days, months, minutes, etc.

For example, we could write plus one DD to add one day or minus two W to subtract two weeks.

This math expression is relative to the anchor date that we specify.

Let's try to subtract one year from the data we have specified.

So to do that I can write minus one Y as in year.

Let's run this.

Looking at the results, we should now see a product that was created in 2009.

So let's scroll down and find this product's.

There we go.

This proves that the date math is indeed working since we used an anchor date in 2010.

So we just matched documents containing a date relative to an anchor date that we provided.

But what if we wanted to subtract one year and one day instead? We can simply append minus one dx to the expression.

So minus one t meaning subtract one year and one day.

I'll just run the query just to prove that it works.

We could append even more to the expression if we wanted to.

You just saw how to specify years and days, but there are more dates and time units available.

I have attached a link to the documentation where you can find all of the date and time units that are available to you.

I won't cover them all here because the concept remains the same.

Whether you are using months, years, minutes, etc.

What I do want to show you now, though, is that we can actually round off dates as well.

We do that by appending a forward slash and the dates or time units.

For example, a query may supply a date, including a time value, in which case you could round the time off to midnight by appending slash dx.

So the date expression, something to note is that in general values around a town, but in the context of the range query, the rounding depends on the parameter that the date is added for.

Consider the following table, which includes an overview of the range operators, along with the rounding direction and an example of how a date would be rounded by month.

The difference is whether or not the values should be included or excluded.

So if we are using the greater than operator, the value is rounded up.

Usually you would round by day, meaning to midnight.

But this example is for rounding off to the nearest month because that's easier to show.

In this case, the value is rounded up, which makes sense if we were rounding by day because then we would want the last day to be included as well, i.e.

round up to one millisecond before midnight if the value should not be included.

It's rounded down, which would effectively exclude the day if we were rounding by day.

The exact opposite is the case for the LC and LCE operators.

Note that even though these examples only specify dates, Elasticsearch will still around the time values as well internally.

That's because Elasticsearch stores and calculates dates based on the number of milliseconds since the epoch.

This means that when rounding up the time would be set to one millisecond before midnight, and when rounding down it would be set to midnight, i.e.

all zeros.

Okay.

So now that you know how values are rounded off in the context of the range query, let me show you an example.

Since we didn't specify a time part for the date in our example query or round off to the nearest month, instead I'll just remove the subtraction of the one day just to make the expression easier to read.

So to round off by month we simply add a forward slash followed by a capital M to the expression I'll use a capital M because a lowercase m refers to minutes and not months.

And let's run it.

Now, we won't actually see any changes in the match documents, but the point is just to show you the syntax.

If we wanted to round off by day, we should have written a slash t.

Now let me show you something interesting.

The rounding does not necessarily have to be placed at the end of the expression.

We can also place it at the beginning if we want the rounding to happen before adding or subtracting from the anchor dates.

So let's delete the slash m and move it to the beginning like so.

In this case we are rounding by month before subtracting one year.

And since we used a GC operator, the value is rounded down.

But suppose that we had used the GC operator, in which case the value would be rounded up.

In that case, the date would be rounded up to one millisecond before midnight on the 21st of January 2010.

And then one year would be subtracted.

So the rounding would happen before subtracting one year.

Now, there's just one more thing I want to show you.

I mentioned earlier that the anchor dates can contain either a date as in our example or the keyword now.

So to make the date calculation relative to the current timestamp, we would just replace the date with now and then remove the two pipes since they would no longer be needed.

Well, actually, we have to.

Or the query won't work.

So let's do that.

So I'll delete this part right here and insert now instead.

And let's run it.

Everything else I showed you remains the same.

So the difference is just that we're calculating dates relative to the current time.

This means that we don't have to send the current timestamp to Elasticsearch from an application because we can let Elasticsearch handle this force.

Also, we don't actually need to add or subtract from dates to use the current timestamp.

If we just want it to refer to the current time, we can just enter now as the expression and leave out anything else.

So I can just remove this part and the query will still work perfectly fine.

And that's how to work with state math in Elasticsearch.

Like I said, this is not specific to the range query, although that's a very common context for using date math.

Remember to check out the link attached to this lecture if you want to check out all of the date and time units that are available.

