In this lecture, I'll show you how to match documents that have at least one non null value for a given field.

We'll do that by using a query named exists.

So what is a non null value? Unlike some other languages that have loose typing, the answer is actually very simple in regards to Elasticsearch and non null value is simply any value that is not null.

If you are familiar with programming languages such as PHP for example, then you will know that an empty string is equal to null unless you do a strict check.

This is not the case in Elasticsearch, meaning that a field containing an empty string would be matched with an existing query.

So what about an empty array, for instance, that would not match an existing query class? Because an array with no values does not satisfy the definition of the exist query, which is that the fields should have at least one non null value.

Since we have the text field being an array of strings, we can use the exist query for matching documents that have at least one tag.

So I'll enter exists here for the query.

And then specify the field.

And that's going to be Tex.

And let's go ahead and run it.

Scrolling through the results, we should see that all of the matches have at least one tag.

So how does the query even work? Well, you might remember the underscore fields, underscore names, mezzo fields from one of the previous sections.

Elasticsearch uses this meta field internally when finding documents that contain a known null value for a given field.

You might also remember the null underscore value mapping parameter, which also has an effect on the access query.

If you specify a null value, the document will be matched by the query because it no longer has an empty value.

With that answer the next term level query.

