Elasticsearch supports a variety of dynamic rules, one of which is the wild card query.

I guess it's not a big surprise to you that this query lets us add wildcards within a query, or rather a term.

There are two characters that you can make use of being an asterisk and a question mark.

An asterisk matches any character sequences, including no characters, while a question mark matches any single character.

Let's search for the term vegetable and replace parts of it with two wildcards, beginning with the asterisk.

So let's enter a wildcard query for the text field and the keyword mapping and simplify the syntax because we don't need to add any parameters and I will just insert a vegetable and replace parts of the term.

So let's say these characters all enter an asterisk instead of this, and let's run it.

So this query matches documents whose text field contains a term beginning with the characters veggie and ending with the characters BLT.

There may be any characters in between and any number of them, including zero.

As we can see, the query matches documents containing the term vegetable for the text field.

Let's try to change the asterisk to a question mark and see what happens and run the query again.

Now no documents are matched.

Remember that a question mark matches any single character, but that doesn't match anything with our test data.

But if I try to add the letters E and C before the question mark, we'll see that the documents containing the vegetable term will be matched again.

So E and C and run the query.

And there we go.

The vegetable tag is matched again.

So that's an easy way of making your query a little more dynamic.

Before ending this lecture, I just want to mention one thing in regards to performance.

Wild card queries can be slow because it needs to iterate over a lot of terms.

Something you should be careful with is placing wildcards at the beginning of a term.

If you place an asterisk or a question mark at the beginning, this can lead to extremely slow queries.

So you should avoid doing this.

And remember, even though it may not be slow on your development machine, this would not be the case in a cluster with millions of documents.

So keep this in mind when writing wildcard queries.

