## Full text queries vs term level queries  In the previous section, we talked about analyzers and the inverted index.

Let's now see why all of that even matters to us.

When we're adding crude, it's against our data.

For that, I want to mention two groups of queries that we can use when searching for data, term level  queries and full text queries to demonstrate the difference between the two groups of queries.

I have prepared free queries in advance, all of which you will see in the next sections of the course.

Let's execute each one of them and see the results.

So if I execute the first query, we get five hits.

If I run the second one, we get zero hits.

The only difference between the two queries is that the term lobster is capitalized in the second query.

So why on earth would the second query not match?

Because if I run the first query again, we can see that the first match contains the term lobster within  its name, also in a capitalized version.

And just to potentially confuse you even more, let's run the first query, which is a full text query  looking for the capitalized word.

That query does match the documents.

So why does the match query match the documents with the capitalized word while the term query doesn't?

The reason is that there is an essential difference between term level queries and full text queries.

Let's go through each of those three queries with some diagrams and you will see what I mean.

First of all, some level queries search for exact values.

You might wonder why the first query is an exact match because the term lobster is capitalized within  the matching document.

The reason for that is that we are actually searching the inverted index for the term and not the document  itself.

So when we search for the term lobster in all lowercase letters, this term gets looked up in the inverted  index.

There we have a match because the documents text field went through the standard analyzer.

Remember that the standard analyzer has a token filter for lowercase letters, which is why the term  gets stored in all lowercase letters in the inverted index because the capitalized term lobster was  analyzed.

The term within the inverted index is an exact match with what we are searching for.

Since both terms are in all lowercase letters, the same is not the case for the second query.

Here we are searching for the term lobster in a capitalized form.

Since the term within the inverted index is in all lowercase letters, as a result of the analysis process,  the query does not match the document.

That's because term level queries search for exact matches.

So the casing of letters matters.

So what about a third query then?

Why does that match when we're searching for the capitalized term, when the term within the inverted  index is lowercase?

The reason is that unlike German level queries, full text queries are analyzed.

What this means is that the search query goes through the same analysis process as the documents text  fields did for this particular query.

This means that the capitalized term lobster is lowercase as part of the standard analyzer, and compared  to the term within the inverted index, we have a match because the term within the inverted index went  through exactly the same analysis.

This is a very important thing to understand.

Term level queries, search for exact values and are not analyzed, whereas full text queries are analyzed  using the same analyzer that's defined for the field that is being searched.

Therefore, you can only find terms that exist within the inverted index, meaning that both the terms  within the inverted index and the search query itself must be normalized into the same form, i.e. use  the same analyzer.

Suppose that a document was indexed using the standard analyzer, causing the terms to be lowercase.

If we run a full text query that uses a different analyzer that doesn't lowercase terms, then the documents  would not be matched because the terms would not match.

So to sum up on what I just mentioned, full text searches are analyzed with the same analyzer as was  used for the inverted index.

At least that's the default behavior.

That's why search queries match independent on the casing because the standard analyzer takes care of  lowercase in both the terms within the inverted index, but also the search query itself.

Because let's face it, it's quite unlikely that the user cares about casing at all.

The same is not the case for term level queries which are not analyzed.

This is why term level queries are not suited for performing full text searches because the inverted  index will often differ from the search query and therefore yield unexpected results.

Instead, term level queries are better suited for matching enum values, numbers, dates, etc. and  not instances.

So why were things designed this way?

Well, taking the simple queries in this lecture into account, we are effectively making our queries  case insensitive.

If performing a full sex search, a user would expect a document to match regardless of the casing.

Perhaps we want to apply stemming to account for different variants of the same word, such as jump  or jumping, which share the same semantic meaning.

Or perhaps we wanted to make use of synonyms for making our searches more intelligent.

So make both of these work.

The query needs to use the same analyzer as was used at index time for the documents.

Again, this is not the case for term level queries because they match exact values.

Again, don't use term level queries for performing full sex searches.

The difference between term level queries and full text queries is important to know.

And I wanted to tell you this now, because now it's time to begin looking at some more search queries.

We'll begin by covering term level queries, following full text queries and some more advanced queries.

So let's get started.

