# Search methods

When writing search queries.

There are two methods in which you can do this.

You already saw one of them by writing the search query within the request body.

This is done by using something called the query DSL.

This is the most flexible and common way of writing search queries, and it's also the approach that we'll use throughout this course.

The way it works is that we add adjacent document underlined following the request UI.

As you saw earlier in the course.

For search queries, we then add a query object which then contains the query definition.

You've already seen a sneak peek of a few queries, so you might remember what it looks like either way.

Here's an example.
```
GET /product/default/_search
{
     "query": {
          "match": {
               "description": {
                    "value": "red wine"
               }
          }
     }
}

```

In this example, query match is the query type, which then contains a key with the name of the field that we want to search.

This key is an object itself specifying the value to search for an optionally in a query options for that field.

In this case, we don't configure the query, so we can actually shorten the query by specifying the search value directly for the description key.

You will see plenty of example queries soon.

So the point is just for you to know what query DSL queries look like.

```
GET /product/default/_search?q=name:pasta
```
Apart from the query DSL, it's also possible to perform searches with the request UI, that is, to embed the search query directly in the request UI.

This is referred to as query string queries.

You can still perform quite advanced queries with this approach, but it's less expressive and can quickly become difficult to read.

There are also things that you just cannot do with the request UI approach.

However, this way of searching is very useful for running quick searches, perhaps for debugging from the command line or while developing.

Interestingly, the query DSL actually supports the query string syntax as well.

Like I said, we'll be using the query DSL throughout this course, at least after showing you the basics of searching with query strings.

Generally, I would recommend using the query DSL from the beginning because then you won't run into situations where you have to convert your query when needing to use some feature that's not available through request UI searches.

Anyways, these are the ways in which you can search for data in Elasticsearch.

So let's get started exploring our data.

