## Understanding query results

Now that we've written a couple of search queries, let's talk about the search results for a moment.

I still have the results from the match all query open, which you can see on the right.

Let's start from the top and work our way down through the JSON object.

First there is a took property which is an integer representing the number of milliseconds the query

took to execute.

Following that is a boolean property named timed underscore out, which is just a flag indicating whether

or not the search request timed out.

Then we have an object named on those course charts.

This object contains the total number of shards that were searched and the number of shards that completed

successfully or failed.

That's all information that may be useful, but typically it's not that relevant except for the time

out property.

The main part of the results is the hits object, which contains the search results.

Within this object, we have a total property containing the total number of documents that match the

search criteria.

The hits object actually contains a Higgs property itself, which is an array containing the match documents.

By default, the first ten documents are returned, but this can be changed, as you'll see later in

the course, each matching document has an underscore score property, which is a number indicating

how well the document matched the search query.

Since this particular query is a match all query, these are all set to one, but you'll see how they

differ soon.

Within the hits object, there is a max score property which contains the highest score for any of the

match documents.

By default, matches are sorted by their relevant score, so this property will contain the score of

the first document within the nested hits array.

That's it.

Those were the properties that make up the response from Elasticsearch when sending a search query.

You probably noticed that I talked a bit about the so called relevance score.

What's that all about?

Let's talk about that in the next lecture.