## Debugging unexpected search results  

Wondering why a document didn't match a search query.

That's something that you're almost guaranteed to experience at some point.

So I want to show you a very useful way in which you can debug and find out why there is an explain  API which you can send a given query to.

You specify the ID of a document in the request UI and the results will show you why that particular  document matched or didn't match.

Let me just type out an example and you'll see what the results look like in a moment.

So we'll issue a get request to the product index as usual and the default type.

And I'll answer one as the ID and underscore explain the API and then add a request body with the query  clause.

And a term query.

You'll see later what this means.

And I'll just shorten this and specify the fields to be the name field and then the value directly instead  of an object.

So in this case, I want to search for lobster.

All right, let's see what it looks like.

So notice that I specified a term query.

I could have specified any other query type that I wanted to.

So don't pay too much attention to that.

So the results state that the term was not found within the document.

That's pretty obviously the reason in this case.

But in cases where the query is more complex with different paths that can match.

This is an extremely useful way of debugging why a given document didn't match a query.

Or perhaps you're wondering why a given document did match.

In both cases, the Explain API is extremely useful and now you know how to use it.`