## Query contexts  

You already saw a couple of simple queries, and before moving on to learning different kinds of queries,  I want to mention that a query class can be executed in two different contexts in a query context or in a filter context when used within a query context, we are essentially asking Elasticsearch the question How well do documents match this query?

Elasticsearch will still decide whether or not documents match in the first place, but a relevant score will also be calculated.

This is what we have seen so far because we nested a term query clause within a query object.

The reason we did that is because there is another place where we can add query clauses within a filter context when adding a query clause.

Within the filter context, we ask Elasticsearch to document match this query clause, i.e. documents that do not match the query clause will not be part of the results.

That part is the same as with the query context, but the important difference is that with the filtering context, Elasticsearch does not calculate relevant scores.

That's because it's a pool evaluation, because either a document matches or it doesn't.

If it does, it should be part of the results and otherwise not the filter.

Context is commonly used for filtering data such as dates or status fields.

An example could be to find products that were added more than a month ago that have a status of unpublished.

So the difference between the query and filter context is that when adding a query clause within the query context, relevance scores are calculated, which is not the case for the filter context.

So which context should you add a query clause to?

It all comes down to whether or not you want the queried loss to affect the relevant score of matching documents.

If you want that, then add the query clause within the query context, i.e. within the query object that you've seen until now.

An example would be to search documents for the term salad within the title field.

If you want documents where the term appears more than once to be more relevant and all of the other relevance factors to be taken into account, then go for the query context.

If you just want to match any document that included some salad, regardless of how well they match,  then you can use the filter context.

The reason for that is that it is of course more efficient to not calculate relevant scores if you don't need them anyways.

On top of that, Elasticsearch can cache filters.

I'll get back to using filters later in the course, but for now, just remember this simple rule of thumb.

If a query clause should affect relevance, then add it to the query context.

Otherwise used to filter context.