Specifically, a number of orders start within an index named order.

You can find this test data attached to this lecture or within the GitHub repository.

Also, be sure to check the GitHub repository because I've added mappings there that you should add before importing the test data.

I have already imported this data in advance, so let's take a moment to walk through the mapping so you know which fields are at our disposal for the upcoming lectures.

I've already typed out the query to see the mapping because you've seen it a couple of times by now, so let's just go ahead and run it.

So we have a Lancefield, which is of the type nested because it contains objects that we need to be able to distinguish from each other.

That's because the test data includes objects within an array.

Each order line contains an amount, a product, ID and the quantity.

We also have a timestamp of when the order was placed which is stored within the purchase underscore add field.

Next we have a field for storing where the order originated from, i.e.

the sales channel.

Each order has a salesman object consisting of both the ID and the name of the person who made the sale.

Last but not least, we have a status field and a convenient field named Total Underscore Amount, which is just a sum of all of the amounts stored within the order lines.

Those are the fields that we'll be using in the upcoming lectures.

Now there are a number of different groups of aggregations which we'll look at separately, beginning with so called metric aggregations.

So let's get started.