# `global` aggregation

Earlier you saw how to filter out documents.

But in this lecture, we're kind of going to do the opposite.

By using an aggregation named Global, we can kind of break out of the aggregation context, so to speak.

What this means is that even if we have included a query which narrows down the set of documents that an aggregation would normally use, we can get access to all documents as if the query was not there.

Let's see an example of that.

## Break out of the aggregation context

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "total_amount": {
        "gte": 100
      }
    }
  },
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "all_orders": {
      "global": { },
      "aggs": {
        "stats_amount": {
          "stats": {
            "field": "total_amount"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
So I have a simple query loaded up which narrows down the set of documents that we would normally aggregate.

So the query matches documents with a total amount of at least 100.

Let's add that global aggregation to break out of this context and aggregate all documents instead.

So let's add an aggs key here with an all_orders aggregation with type of global.

So this aggregation means that we are essentially accessing all documents and not just the documents that have a total_amount of at least 100.

So this creates a bucket.

So let's do something with that bucket by adding a sub aggregation.

I'll call it stats amounts and use the stats type with the field of total amounts.
running the query.
```
{
  "took" : 4,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 489,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  },
  "aggregations" : {
    "all_orders" : {
      "doc_count" : 1000,
      "stats_amount" : {
        "count" : 1000,
        "min" : 10.27,
        "max" : 281.77,
        "avg" : 109.20961,
        "sum" : 109209.61
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Notice how the document count for the aggregation is 1000 and not the 489 documents that the query matched.

That's because the global aggregation is not influenced by the search query.

Instead, it uses the context of the index and type that the query is run against and uses all of the documents that are available within this context.

So implicitly, a match all query.

All right.

Let's take a moment to add another aggregation, one that's not global.

## Adding aggregation without global context

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "total_amount": {
        "gte": 100
      }
    }
  },
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "all_orders": {
      "global": { },
      "aggs": {
        "stats_amount": {
          "stats": {
            "field": "total_amount"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "stats_expensive": {
      "stats": {
        "field": "total_amount"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
So I'll do that at the same level as the all order segregation and I'll name it stats underscore expensive like so and use a stats aggregation also for the total amount field.

Let's go ahead and run it.

```
{
  "took" : 1,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 489,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  },
  "aggregations" : {
    "all_orders" : {
      "doc_count" : 1000,
      "stats_amount" : {
        "count" : 1000,
        "min" : 10.27,
        "max" : 281.77,
        "avg" : 109.20961,
        "sum" : 109209.61
      }
    },
    "stats_expensive" : {
      "count" : 489,
      "min" : 100.05,
      "max" : 281.77,
      "avg" : 157.32703476482618,
      "sum" : 76932.92
    }
  }
}

```
So running this query.

Notice how the aggregation uses 489 documents for the aggregation.

These are the documents that were matched by the query.

Since the new aggregation is not a global aggregation, it uses the context of the search query, which has narrowed the documents down to 489 documents with a total amount of at least 100.

And that's simply because we didn't use the global aggregation.

This is also apparent if we look at the statistics that the aggregation has calculated, because we'll see that the amounts are higher.

And that's how to aggregate on a global context, even if a query has narrowed down the set of documents for the aggregation context.

One thing to note is that global aggregations can only be placed at the top level of the aggregation subjects.

That's not a problem, though, because it wouldn't make any sense to place a global aggregation as a sub aggregation anyways.

