# Missing field values

So far we have just assumed the documents contain the field that we're using within aggregations.

But what if this is not the case?

What if we're aggregating on a status field and we have some documents that do not have this field?

Or what if the value is null?

We can aggregate these documents with an aggregation named missing before showing you what the aggregation looks like.

We need a couple of documents that either don't contain the status field or contain, nonetheless the value.


## Adding test documents

I've prepared two super simple queries for adding to test documents, so let's just run those, first of all.

```
PUT /orders/_doc/1001
{
  "total_amount": 100
}
```
```
PUT /orders/_doc/1002
{
  "total_amount": 200,
  "status": null
}
```
All right, now that we have some test data, I can show you what the aggregation looks like.

## Aggregating documents with missing field value

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "orders_without_status": {
      "missing": {
        "field": "status"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Let's run it.
```
{
  "took" : 847,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1002,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  },
  "aggregations" : {
    "orders_without_status" : {
      "doc_count" : 2
    }
  }
}
```
Since the missing aggregation is a bucket aggregation, it creates a bucket with the orders that either don't have a status field at all or have a value of null.

Looking at the results, we can see that this is only the case for two documents, the ones we just added.

That's really all there is to the missing aggregation.

I do want to mention that it respects the null_value mapping parameter.

In case you use that in the field mapping, you usually use the missing aggregation in combination with other aggregations.

For example, we might use some metric aggregation to aggregate the total amounts for the orders without a status.

## Combining `missing` aggregation with other aggregations

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "orders_without_status": {
      "missing": {
        "field": "status"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "missing_sum": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "total_amount"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

So as you know, we can easily do this by adding a sub aggregation and it's missing sum and just specify sum and total amount as the fields and run it.
```
{
  "took" : 10,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1002,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  },
  "aggregations" : {
    "orders_without_status" : {
      "doc_count" : 2,
      "missing_sum" : {
        "value" : 300.0
      }
    }
  }
}
```
And as we can see, the total amounts for the orders without the status field is 300.

Of course you don't necessarily need to combine the missing aggregation with other aggregations.

It can be useful in itself to find invalid orders or something like that.

## Deleting test documents

```
DELETE /orders/_doc/1001
```

```
DELETE /orders/_doc/1002
```
Either way, before wrapping this lecture up, I just want to remove the two test orders, so I'll just write, delete or defaults 1001 make a copy and specify 1002 and run these two queries.

