Remember the nested query that we use to query fields mapped with nested data type?

Similar to that, there is a nested aggregation or reused to department index from earlier because I want to find the lowest age among all of the employees across all of the departments.

For that purpose we can use the mean metric aggregation.

Consider the query I've prepared in advance.

You might think that does the job, but let's run it.

Notice how the aggregation produces null, which is clearly incorrect.

As with the nest decree, we also need to handle nested fields a little differently in regards to aggregations.

More specifically, we need to use the nested aggregation which enables us to aggregate nested documents.

As with the nested query, we need to specify the path of the nested objects.

All right, so let's get rid of this existing aggregation and add a new one.

I'll name it employees.

And it's of the type nested.

So the path is the path to the objects, as you've seen before, with the nested query.

So in this case, that's going to be employees because that's an array of objects.

And let's just go ahead and run this and see the results so we can see that we get a bucket with 15 documents being the 15 employee objects.

Employees from both departments are placed into the bucket because we didn't specify a query and a match.

All query is therefore used implicitly.

We can now use this bucket with any of the aggregations that you've seen until now.

In particular, we want to use the main aggregation for finding the lowest age among the 15 employees.

We do that by specifying it as a sub aggregation.

So let's add an ex key here with an aggregation named minimum on the score h being of the min type being a metric aggregation and the field is employees that h as with the nested query, it's important that you include the path to the objects running this query.

We can see that the youngest employee is 19 years old.

And that's how to use a nested aggregation in combination with the nested field type.

