Now we're ready to begin writing our first aggregations.

We'll begin by looking at a group of aggregations referred to as metric aggregations, because these are the simplest ones.

In fact, you're probably going to recognize most of them from relational databases if you are familiar with those.

This group of aggregations is divided into two subgroups or categories.

Now, before I tell you what these are called, just take a second to prepare yourself for some super fancy terminology.

Are you ready?

They are called central value numeric metric aggregations and multi value numeric metric aggregations.

That sounds pretty fancy, right?

Don't worry, it's nowhere near as complex as it sounds.

The single value aggregations simply output a single value, which could be the sum of numbers or an average value.

Unsurprisingly, multi value aggregations yield multiple values rather than just a single value.

You'll see examples of both kinds of aggregations in this lecture.

So let's get started.

Let's begin with what is probably the simplest aggregation, the sum aggregation.

It simply takes a given numeric field for a number of documents and sums up the numbers.

So which documents are used for the aggregations, you might wonder.

To start out with, we'll use the results of a search query to find within the query object.

So any search query that you've seen throughout this course.

That being said, we don't need to explicitly add a query if we just want to aggregate all documents.

If we wanted to, we could define a match all query, but we can also just leave out the query object altogether, which I'll do for now.

So for the following queries, we'll be using all of the documents within the order index for the aggregations.

If we wanted to only use documents with a total amount of less than 50, we could add a range query in which case the matches for this query would be used for the aggregations.

Anyways, enough talking.

So let's write a query that includes an aggregation.

So gifts and the new order index defaults, search API as always.

And first I'll set the size parameter to zero because we're only interested in the aggregations and not the results of the query.

Remember that I don't need to add a query objects because I'm implicitly matching all documents by leaving it out.

So what I'll do instead is to specify an x objects.

This object can be named aggregations as well if you prefer, but I'll just use X in this course.

So what I want to do is to sum up the total amounts.

So what we will have is the total sales.

And this is just the name of the aggregation.

So that's just an arbitrary name that I define.

So it can be anything you want.

And here we have to enter the aggregation type.

That's going to be some because we re going to be summing up numeric values.

And within this object we can configure the sum aggregation by specifying parameters.

All I need to do in this case is to add a field parameter containing the name of the field that we want to aggregate.

In this case, that's going to be total amounts.

Let's run the query and see what the response looks like.

As you can see, we now have a key named aggregations containing an object with the aggregations that we specified within the query.

Also, notice how the sum aggregation is nested within a field named according.

So the name that we specified within the query total underscore sales in this example.

Pretty easy, right?

Let's move on to a query named Avg shot for the word error, which, as you can probably imagine, it calculates the average value for a given field.

I'll use the total underscore amount field.

Again, we could add a whole new query for this aggregation, but I want to show you how we can easily add more than one aggregation to a query.

Besides, I also want the average value to be for all documents.

So what I'll do is that I'll just add a new aggregation right here and I'll name it a VG underscore sale.

This will be an object as well.

The type will be AVG and the field will be total underscore amount.

Running the query will see an additional aggregation alongside the sum aggregation.

But hey, why start with two aggregations when we can have three?

Let's add two more aggregations of the types min and max.

These aggregations return the minimum and maximum value for given fields respectively.

So the lowest and highest order amounts.

So what I'll do is that I'll copy this just to save some typing.

I'll name the first one min underscore sale and set it to a type of min sort for minimum.

The field is still going to be total amount.

Then I'll paste in a new aggregation down here and do the same thing.

So Max underscore sale a type of max and again, the total amount field.

And sure enough, we see the lowest and highest order amounts being returned within the results.

Okay, this is getting out of hand, isn't it?

Four aggregations in one query.

There is nothing wrong with that.

And you can add even more if you want it to.

But let's keep everything nice and short and write a new query.

I'll just make a copy of the existing query and mtg aggregations objects.

Let's add a couple of spaces.

And I get rid of all of this like so.

The next aggregation I want to show you is named Cardinality.

What it basically does is that it counts the number of distinct values for a field.

Let's use this aggregation to find out how many different salesmen are associated with an order for which I'll use the ID field within the salesman object by specifying a field path.

So if that sounded confusing, let's type it out.

So the name of the aggregation will be total underscore salesmen being an object as always.

And the aggregation type is going to be cardinality.

And the field will be sales man or ID.

So the ID field is what we are aggregating on.

And that's it.

Let's run it.

The results show that for all of the orders within the index, there are 100 different salesmen.

Something important to know is that the cardinality aggregation produces approximate numbers.

The explanation for this gets very technical, but basically it comes down to the fact that producing exact numbers would take up too many resources from the cluster.

Therefore, an algorithm is used to try and yield numbers as accurately as possible.

Elasticsearch does pretty well, so you will generally see quite accurate results.

But if you need highly accurate numbers, then you should keep this in mind.

You can control the precision and sacrifice some performance if this is important to you, in which case I encourage you to check out the documentation.

Anyways, let's move on to the next aggregation which is named value on the score count.

This aggregation counts the number of values that the aggregation is based on.

I'll use the total underscore amount field for aggregation.

So in this example, the number will be 1000 because we have 1000 documents within our index and the match all query is used implicitly.

But anyways, let's see it in action.

So I'll just make a copy of this query, paste it in, add some spaces.

And I'll get rid of this.

And add the values on the score count aggregation.

Remember, this is the name, not the type.

And here I'll add the type of value underscore counts and the fields is going to be total underscore amounts.

Let's run it.

And the results do indeed specify 1000.

So the value underscore account aggregation gives us the number of values that the aggregation used for doing its work.

This will often be useful in conjunction with other aggregations.

For instance, if we use the AVG aggregation to calculate an average order amount, then we might want to use the value underscore count aggregation to know how many orders the average value was based on.

This would especially be useful if we were using a query other than the match all query because the number of matches would therefore not be as predictable.

Sometimes you might need to use several of these aggregations at the same time for the same field instead of specifying multiple aggregations.

Elasticsearch provides a convenient multi value aggregation named stats.

This aggregation calculates the numbers returned by the min max, some avg and value count aggregations.

Let's use this aggregation for the total amount field and see what the results look like.

So again, let's paste in a copy of the query.

Get rid of what we had already.

Name its amounts on the score stats specify the stats type and the total amount field as always.

And run it.

As you can see within the results, the stats aggregation returns the same numbers as you have seen before.

So it's just a convenience aggregation.

And that was the last metric regression that I wanted to show you.

There are a few others, but those were the most important ones and the ones that you will typically need, if you need something very specific or if you are just curious, then be sure to check out the documentation.

You can find a link attached to this lecture.

