Having looked at metric aggregations, it's time to look at the different group of aggregations, namely bucket aggregations.

Bucket aggregations are a bit more complicated than metric aggregations, but are extremely powerful and enable you to do really cool things which you will especially see in a couple of lectures.

Instead of calculating metrics for fields, bucket aggregations create buckets of documents.

So basically sets of documents.

Some aggregations may yield a single bucket, others are fixed number, and some create multiple buckets dynamically.

Each bucket has a criterion which determines whether or not a given document will fall into that bucket.

I realize that sounds a bit complicated, so let's fast forward and get to some examples that make everything easier to understand.

Just note that instead of calculating values also known as matrix bucket aggregations create buckets which are basically just sets of documents.

The first aggregation I will make use of is the term aggregation which dynamically builds a bucket for each unique value.

We can use this to group others together based on the value of the status fields.

So let's do that.

So I have the skeleton for a query loaded up here.

And I will add an aggregation named status on the score terms.

Being an object as you've seen before.

And the aggregation type is terms that just get rid of the size parameter for now and specify the fields to be status.

And go ahead and run it.

Inspecting the results, we can see that a bucket has been created for each unique value of the status field under a buckets key.

The values are returned under the key key and the doc underscore count key specifies how many documents fell into each bucket.

Notice how the response also includes two keys named doc count error, upper bound and some other doc counts.

I won't discuss the first one now because I'll get back to that one in more details in the next lecture.

So what's the some other doc count? Key all about? Elasticsearch returns to top unique terms.

So if you have many different terms, then some of them will not appear in the results.

There's some other dock counts.

Key is to some of the document counts for the terms that were not part of the response.

In this example, the number is zero because we only have five different values for the status field.

Suppose that we have 50, for example.

In that case we would not see all of the terms appearing as a bucket.

The sum of the doc count key would then contain the sum of the doc underscore count keys for the buckets that were left out of the response.

Let's see what happens if I change the field to the total underscore amount fields, which has many different values.

And run the again.

Now does some underscore other underscore doc underscore county has a value of 986.

If we sum all of the doc underscore counties and the response together we would get 14 since we have 1000 documents.

I'll just revert this change and change the field back to status.

Since we only have five unique values for the status fields, we won't see any difference.

But I'm sure you get the points.

But what if we have documents that don't contain the status field at all or have a value of null? By adding a missing parameter, we can specify the name of a bucket in which such documents should be placed.

So let's add this parameter named missing and the value will be the name of the bucket.

I'll just add it to RN slash a short for not available and running this query we don't actually see any difference.

That's because there are no orders that either don't have the status field or contain a value of null.

We might still want the bucket to be returned though.

Perhaps.

So some application code does need to conditionally handle if it's present or not.

We can do that by adding a parameter named min underscore doc underscore count which specifies the minimum number of documents a bucket needs to contain to be present within the results.

The default value is one, which is why the missing parameter did not yield any buckets within the results.

Let's set the parameter to zero and we should see the bucket appear.

So min underscore doc underscore count and set it to zero.

And then run the quarry again.

And sure enough, now we see a bucket named in slash a within the results with a document count of zero.

Now, I just want to briefly mention that the calculator document counts are approximate.

So in some scenarios this may not be accurate.

I'll get back to that in much more detail in the next lecture so I won't talk more about it now.

It's also possible to order the buckets in various ways, including by sub aggregations, which is something that we haven't looked at yet.

So instead of that, I will just order the buckets by their terms in ascending order.

We can do that by adding an order parameter containing the underscore term key and the order direction.

The underscore term key is a special key that allows you to refer to the buckets key being the value of the status field.

So let's see that in action.

So an oral parameter and on the score term and ascending order and let's see what it looks like.

And now we can see that the buckets have been ordered according to the status field in ascending order.

All right.

That was actually the only aggregation that I wanted to cover in this lecture, since the term aggregation is a good introduction to bucket aggregations.

In the following lectures, we're going to go through some more bucket aggregations now that you know the basics of how they work.

So just to recap on the main takeaways from this lecture, bucket aggregations create buckets, which are sets of documents based on some criterion.

The criterion depends on the particular bucket aggregation that's used.

In this lecture, you saw the term aggregation in action, which creates a bucket for each unique term for a given field.

Bucket aggregations enable us to do a lot of cool things, which you're going to see soon.

