# Filtering out documents

Now that you know what sub aggregations are all about, it's time to show you another pocket aggregation.

As you know, the documents that an aggregation uses depends on the context in which the aggregation is defined.

But sometimes you might want to filter out documents for a given aggregation.

Maybe you have some products and you need to add an aggregation within the context where both ebooks and paper books are included, for instance.

But you're only really interested in paper books.

You can then use a filter to narrow down the set of documents that an aggregation will use as context.

A filter uses a query clause exactly as we've done within search queries.

So this could be a term query or a match query.

For instance, let's see an example of how we can filter out documents before running an aggregation.

## Filtering out documents with low `total_amount`

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "low_value": {
      "filter": {
        "range": {
          "total_amount": {
            "lt": 50
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
So let's add an aggregation.

I'll name it low, underscore value because I want to filter out orders with a low value for the total_amount field.

So I'll add a filter key here with a range query.

So you just add a normal query clause within this filter key.

Exactly as within search queries, the fields will be total underscore amounts.

And I'll use the LT key here with a value of 50.

And then I will add a sub aggregation to this low value aggregation.

## Aggregating on the bucket of remaining documents

```
GET /orders/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "low_value": {
      "filter": {
        "range": {
          "total_amount": {
            "lt": 50
          }
        }
      },
      "aggs": {
        "avg_amount": {
          "avg": {
            "field": "total_amount"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
So let's do that at an aggs key right here and name the aggregation average amounts and the type of the field will be total amount.

Before explaining this further, let's just go ahead and run it so we can see what the results look like.

Let's run it.
```
{
  "took" : 11,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1000,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  },
  "aggregations" : {
    "low_value" : {
      "doc_count" : 164,
      "avg_amount" : {
        "value" : 32.59371951219512
      }
    }
  }
}

```
So what happens here is that the AVG aggregation runs within the context of the filter, meaning that it only aggregates the documents to match the range query.

So the range query is a top level aggregation, meaning that it runs in the context of the query, which is an implicit match all query in this case.

And the AVG aggregation runs in the context of the filter aggregation, meaning that some documents have been filtered out.

So the bucket that the AVG aggregation works upon doesn't have any orders with a value of less than 50.

And that's how you can use a filter to filter out documents before creating a bucket for another aggregation.

