You just saw the filter aggregation and now you'll see a filters aggregation which is kind of related.

What you can do with this aggregation is to define rules for which buckets documents should be placed into.

This is done by specifying bucket names and the query clauses the documents must match to be placed in the buckets.

So we could specify a bucket with a name of cert and define that only products whose name contained the term cert should be placed within that bucket.

Let's go through an example of this, for which I will use the recipe index again.

Specifically, I want to have two buckets one for pasta recipes and one for spaghetti recipes.

So I'll add an aggregation, I'll just call it my filter.

And the aggregation type is going to be filters in Perl.

Now this aggregation contains a filters parameter which might look strange to you.

It did to me at first as well.

The reason why this is the case is because you can add parameters to the filters aggregation.

So you just have to define the filters within the filters parameter nested within the filters aggregation.

I know that sounds confusing, but nevertheless, that's how this aggregation has been designed.

So let's go ahead and add our first query, or rather our first bucket rule.

I'll name this pasta, which will be in the name of the buckets that will be created.

This would be an object.

And in here I'll add a query clause.

In this example, I will use a match query.

So this can be any query class that you've seen before when performing normal search queries.

There is no difference.

So what I want to do is to search the title fields for the term pasta.

So what this will do is to take any documents whose title contains the term pasta and place them within a bucket named pasta.

All right.

For this to make sense, let's add another bucket rule.

I'll give it a name of spaghetti.

Also, use a match query.

Again.

Search the title fields and search for the term spaghetti.

Okay, hopefully this syntax doesn't look too confusing to you, but anyways, let's run the query and see what the results look like.

So this creates two buckets for us with the appropriate recipes, and we can see the document counts within the results.

However, you will often want to do something with the buckets that are created other than calculating the document count.

We can add a sub aggregation to the filter so that the sub aggregation does its work based on the buckets that the fills are created.

Let's calculate the average ratings for each of the buckets by using the AVG aggregation.

All right, so at the same level as the filters key, let's define an X key.

And in here I'll add an aggregation named AVG on the score rating and the type will be AVG and the filter will be ratings.

Let's go ahead and run it.

And now along with the document counts, we now also get the average rating for the documents within the two buckets.

And that's how you can narrow down the documents before running an aggregation.

Pretty cool, right? 