# Indexing documents

## Indexing document with auto generated ID:

An index is not much fun without any documents, so let's add some.

More formally, we will "index" some documents, which is the more correct terminology to use, but you might hear me use both phrases interchangeably.

We can index a document by sending a POST request to an endpoint consisting of the index name, a slash, and "_doc". Let's type that out.

We then need to define the document within the request body as a JSON object.

The whole object is what Elasticsearch will add as the document, and you can add any valid JSON.

Since our index is named "products," we should add a document that represents a product.

I will add one consisting of three fields; "name," "price," and "in_stock".

```
POST /products/_doc
{
  "name": "Coffee Maker",
  "price": 64,
  "in_stock": 10
}
```
Great, the document has now been added to the "products" index.

```
{
  "_index" : "products",
  "_type" : "_doc",
  "_id" : "i5NphIIBQIIkZQ0Tnxys",
  "_version" : 1,
  "result" : "created",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 3,
    "successful" : 3,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 3,
  "_primary_term" : 0
}

```
There are two things I want to point out within the results.

First, notice the object named "_shards". This object tells us how many shards succeeded and failed to store the document.

In our case everything went well, and the document was stored on three shards.

But why three?

Remember how we configured our index to contain two shards and two replica shards.

The document was added to one of the two shards, being a primary shard, and it was then replicated to its replica shards.

So the document was added to the primary shard and its two replica shards, together forming a replication group.

The next thing I want to point out, is the "_id" key which contains an identifier for the document.

This identifier was generated automatically because we didn't specify one when we added the document.


## Indexing document with custom ID:

We can do that if we want to, so let's try to add another document with an ID of 100.

To specify an ID, we first need to change the HTTP verb to "PUT," since this is a convention for REST APIs.

Then we just need to append a forward slash followed by the ID to the endpoint.

```
PUT /products/_doc/100
{
  "name": "Toaster",
  "price": 49,
  "in_stock": 4
}
```

Within the query results, we can see that the "_id" key does indeed contain the value that we specified.

Note that the identifier is just a string value and does not have to be an integer as in this example.

```
{
  "_index" : "products",
  "_type" : "_doc",
  "_id" : "100",
  "_version" : 2,
  "result" : "updated",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 1,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}
```
Another thing to note, is that we didn't even have to create the index in advance.

There is a setting named "**action.auto_create_index**" that can be configured at the cluster level, which specifies if indices should be created automatically.

The setting defaults to "true," meaning that if we try to add a document to a non-existing index, the index will be created, after which the document will be added to it.

**It's best practice** to explicitly create indices, but this behavior is convenient in development mode.

Now that you know how to add documents to an index, let's try retrieving them.

