In this section, we are going to look at so-called joining queries.

We have covered a lot about searching for documents already, but now we are going to look at querying relationships between documents.

In this introductory lecture, I am just going to briefly show you a couple of examples of how data can be stored in a relational database such as MySQL og Postgres.

Suppose that we want to store employees in a database, and that each employee is associated with an address.

In relational databases, it’s best practice to normalize data, meaning that we can store this data in two different tables and link the two with a foreign key.

Relational databases are all about creating and querying relationships between different pieces of data, hence the name relational databases.

Or perhaps we want to store the departments of companies and which cities they are located within, in which case the database schema could look something like this.

In this case, each department has a foreign key to the city that it is located in, meaning that we are dealing with a one-to-many relationship.

Okay, so why am I talking about relational databases all of a sudden?

Because most developers are familiar with relational databases, and I want to tell you that this is not how you go about storing data in Elasticsearch.

In Elasticsearch, you generally denormalize your data whenever possible, because that leads to the best performance, so kind of the opposite of what you would do in a relational database.

To give you a comparison, how you store data in Elasticsearch is close to how you would store data in a NoSQL database such as MongoDB where you either don’t join data at all, or do it at the application level.

But isn’t storing data in a denormalized way inefficient, you might wonder?

Won’t we be wasting disk space by storing the city name for each department instead of having a foreign key point to it and thereby only store it one time?

Yes, that’s true, but remember that it’s generally not recommended to use Elasticsearch as a primary data store.

By not doing this, we have the freedom to store data however we want within Elasticsearch, i.e.

in ways that are optimized for quickly searching for data.

So in this case, it might be perfectly fine to sacrifice disk space to increase the performance and throughput of the Elasticsearch cluster.

Elasticsearch doesn’t support joins like relational databases do, but it does support some simple ways of joining documents.

It has to be said, though, that these queries are pretty inefficient, so that might be worth keeping in mind when dealing with lots of documents.

So how can we map and query document relationships in Elasticsearch?

Let’s take a look at which tools we have at our disposal in the following lectures.

