Earlier in this section, you saw how to use nested inner hits to see which nested objects cost a document to match unless the query inherits can also be used for joint fields though.

So let's take a look at that in this lecture.

The way we do it is exactly the same as you saw earlier, but the inner hits that are returned depend on which query we use.

Let's begin by returning inner hits for the Hess underscore child query that you saw in an earlier lecture I've already pasted in the query.

So all we need to do is to add the inner underscore hits option to it and run it.

So let's go ahead and do that.

So I'll add the inner underscore hits option here and add an empty object as the value.

And let's go ahead and run it.

This query returns departments that have employees matching the define query when including inner hits.

We're now able to see which employees cost each department to match the query.

For this particular query, an employee named Daniel Harris matched the query that we specified, causing the Hess underscore child query to match the development department's.

The approach is the same for the Hess underscore parent query.

So let's quickly see it in action.

So I have that query down here.

So I'll just go ahead and add the inner underscore hits option to it exactly as with the above query and run it.

This query matches child documents that have apparent that match the crude that we have defined by including inner hits.

Within the results, we can now see which department cost each employee to match.

That is, we can tell which parent document costs a given child documents to be returned.

Given our query, the inner hits is unsurprisingly the development department, but in a more real world scenario.

The query would be one that could match multiple departments.

Nevertheless, I'm sure you get the points, and that's all there is to returning in hits for queries that use John Fields.

