# Join limitations

Now that we have covered the functionality of join queries, let’s take a step back and talk about a bit of theory.

In particular, I want to mention a couple of limitations that apply to join fields.

There are just a few, so this is going to be a short lecture.

First of all, as I mentioned in a previous lecture, the documents that we are joining must be stored within the same index.

This means that we cannot have departments stored in one index, and employees in another, and then try to join the two together.

This is a performance limitation, as joins would otherwise be really slow.

Another limitation is that parent and child documents must be indexed on the same shard.

You already saw this in practice when we added documents, because we had to explicitly provide a “routing” parameter to make sure that the documents ended up on the same shard.

On top of that, there can only be one join field per index.

That shouldn’t matter too much though, as we can map as many document relationships as we want for that join field, and new relations can always be added to an existing join field.

You can also always add a new child to a relation, but only if the relation is already a parent.

Next, a document can only have one parent.

This means that an employee can only belong to one department, for instance.

A document can, however, have multiple children, so a department can have multiple employees, as you have already seen in the previous lectures.

Those were the limitations that apply to “join” fields.

With that out of the way, let’s talk a bit about the performance of joining queries.

