The first way of joining data that we will look at, is by using a query named nested.

When we looked at mapping, I talked a bit about a field data type named nested, which is used together with the nested query.

Just to briefly refresh your memory, this type is used for arrays of objects where you want to maintain the relationships between object properties, meaning many-to-one relationships.

If a field is just mapped as an array of objects, an object is not independent, because all of the object properties are mixed together when stored by Elasticsearch.

I'll get back to the problems with this in a moment.

First, let's add a new index and some test data so that we have something to work with.

I've added three queries in advance for this, which you can find in the GitHub repository if you're following along.

I added these in advance, because they don't contain anything you haven't seen before.

Let's go ahead and run these queries one by one.

The first query creates a new index named department, which contains a mapping for two fields, name and employees.

The employees field is of the type nested, as it will hold an array of objects.

I haven't mapped out the properties of the objects, as I will let Elasticsearch's dynamic mapping handle this for us.

So, let's run the first query to add the index.

There we go.

The next query adds a document to the newly created index.

More specifically, a document representing a development department and the number of employees.

Each employee object contains four fields, name, age, gender, and position.

So let's go ahead and run this query, like so.

And let's scroll down a bit.

The third query simply adds another department, namely a human resources and marketing department.

So let's run this one as well.

Now with some test data at hand, let's try to query the nested field, being the employees field.

Suppose that I want to find out which departments have female interns, which I can do by looking for a value of intern within the position field, and the term F within the gender field.

Since that's two queries, I will wrap them within a bool query.

So let's do just that.

So I'll write bool as the query type.

Then I'll add a must clause.

And in here I'll add a match query and specify the path of the field that I want to search.

Since it's a property of a nested object, I'll write employees.position.

And as the value to search for, I'll write intern.

Let's add another query to the must array.

A term query this time.

And the path will be employees.gender.

And I'll use the keyword mapping because I'm using term level query.

And the value will just be a capital F.

Let's go ahead and run it and see what happens.

So running this query, we get no matches.

That's because nested fields cannot be queried this way.

Instead, they must be queried using a specialized query type named nested.

The nested query consists of two parts, a path to the field containing the objects, and the query that should be run against them.

Let's begin to type out the query by making a copy of the query that we just wrote and then adjust it.

So let's paste it in down here.

And actually I will just get rid of all of this and add the nested query.

And the path will be employees being the field containing the objects.

And then I'll just take the bool query from before, copy it, and paste it in within this query object like so.

All right, so let's try to run this query.

Running this query, both departments are now matched because we get two total matches in the search results.

This happens because the association between the objects is now maintained.

So couldn't we have done this with a normal array of objects, i.e.

without the nested type?

No, we couldn't.

The reason is that the association between each of the object properties would be lost.

This means that we wouldn't be able to answer the question: which departments have employees that are both interns and female?

We would simply not be able to query more than one field on the same object, because the values are all mixed together when stored internally.

Maybe you remember me showing you an example of this when discussing the nested type when talking about mapping.

Anyways, that was how to use the nested query for querying nested objects.

This query type is used in combination with the nested field data type, and enables you to query each object independently.

More specifically, you can query each object as if it was an independent document, which is actually how the objects are stored internally.

A problem with this approach, is that each employee is stored within that department document.

This increases the complexity of keeping the employees updated, such as if they change their title, address, or whatever the case might be.

Wouldn't it be better if an employee was a document itself, and that we had a way of establishing a relationship between the department document and the employee document?

Kind of the same thing as you would do with a foreign key in a relational database.

We can actually do this by using something called a join field, which we'll take a look at in a moment.

But first, I want to show you a neat feature called inner hits.

