The first step to defining document relationships, is to define them in the mapping.

Because we need to change the mapping, I have deleted the department index in advance, just to make things easier for ourselves.

The way we can join documents in Elasticsearch is by using a special kind of field called a join field.

This field defines the relations between the types of documents that are part of the document hierarchy.

Let's get started adding the mapping for the field and I'll share a few more details about the field afterwards.

We can name the field anything we want, exactly as any other field, so I'll just name it join_field.

So I'll write join_field here and give it a value of an object.

The data type for this field is join, which is a special data type that's dedicated for defining document relationships.

So I'll define that through the type object and set it to join.

The possible relations between the various kinds of documents must then be defined within a relations object, so let's go ahead and add that object.

So relations, and I'll set it to an empty object for now.

This object should contain key-value pairs defining the relationships between documents.

Let's continue with the example from the previous lecture and add a relationship between a department and an employee.

We can do that by adding a key with a value of department and a value of employee, so let's do that.

So department, and employee as the value.

These are just arbitrary strings of our choice and the key does not need to match the name of the index as it does in this example.

That's it! Let's go ahead and run the query.

Okay, so what does this actually mean? We have just defined two relation types, being department and employee, where department is the parent of employee.

This means that we have effectively defined a parent-child relationship which we can make use of when adding documents.

The relation that we defined is between a parent and a child, but we could also have defined multiple children if we wanted to.

All we had to do for that, would be to change the string value with an array of strings instead.

That way, each of the strings within the array represents a child document type belonging to the parent.

Anyways, the relation that we did create enables us to query documents based on the relationship, which you will see in a couple of lectures.

But first, let's add some documents to the index so that we have some data to work with.

