# Adding documents

Now that we have the mapping in place let's add some documents.

You have already seen how to add documents to an index, but we need to do things a little differently when working with document relations.

First off, let's add two departments to the index.

For this I have to find two simple queries in advanced, which is how we would normally go about adding documents to an index.

I haven't run them yet, because when using join fields we need to make a small change.

When adding documents for our relation we need to specify which relation we want the document to be apart of.

Remember that our mapping states that a department is a parent of an employee.

Since we want to add a department now we just need to specify the name of this relation, i.e.

the key value of the join field that we specified in the mapping being departments.

We do this be adding a key matching the name of the join field with a value of department.

We named the join fields join_field in our mapping, but that's just an arbitrary value of your choice as long as it matches what's defined in the mapping it can be anything you want.

## Adding departments

```
PUT /department/_doc/1
{
  "name": "Development",
  "join_field": "department"
}
```
All right so let's go ahead and add a key named join_field matching the field name within the mapping, and set the value to department, and that's it, let's try to run the query.
```
{
  "_index" : "department",
  "_type" : "_doc",
  "_id" : "1",
  "_version" : 2,
  "result" : "updated",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 2,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}
```
Alright, that went well.

So let's go ahead and do the same thing to the second query as well.

So I can just make a copy of this line and paste it in down here and run the query as well.

```
PUT /department/_doc/2
{
  "name": "Marketing",
  "join_field": "department"
}
```
Note that you can also add an object as the value for the join field and define the name of the relation as the value for a name option.

I just used the shortcut in this example, so you're welcome to choose whichever syntax you prefer.

Okay, now that we have two departments within the index it's time to add a couple of employees.

I'll add three fields for each employee, name, age, and gender, so let's go ahead and type this out.

## Adding employees for departments

```
PUT /department/_doc/3
{
  "name": "Bo Andersen",
  "age": 28,
  "gender": "M",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 1
  }
}
```
PUT department _doc and give it an ID of three.

Set the name field to my name.

Set the age to some number and the gender to M.

Since we're now dealing with the child side of the relation we need to specify which document will be the parent of the document, i.e.

which department the employee belongs to.

As before we do this by adding a key matching the name of the join field, but this time we have to add an update as the value.

So let's get started typing that out.

So join_field as before, but this time an object.

Within this update we need to add an option called name with a value of employee, which tells Elasticsearch that the document is an employee.

So name and employee.

Last but not least, we need to add an option named parent with the ID of the parent document as the value.

In this example that should be the ID of a department, so let's just enter one as the value, so parent and one.

Let's go ahead and run the query.
```
{
  "error" : {
    "root_cause" : [
      {
        "type" : "mapper_parsing_exception",
        "reason" : "failed to parse"
      }
    ],
    "type" : "mapper_parsing_exception",
    "reason" : "failed to parse",
    "caused_by" : {
      "type" : "illegal_argument_exception",
      "reason" : "[routing] is missing for join field [join_field]"
    }
  },
  "status" : 400
}
```
As you can see we get an error when trying to add the document.

The error states that routing is missing for the join field, so what's that all about?

Just to quickly refresh your memory in case you forgot what routing is, it's a way for Elasticsearch to know on which shard child a document with a given ID is stored.

This is both used when indexing new documents and when finding existing ones.

The default routing behavior is to use a document's ID as the routing value and feed that into a hashing function.

The details of how routing works is not necessary to understand in regards to joining queries.

So don't worry about that for now.

The point is that we need to add a query parameter named routing with a value matching the ID of the parent document, which is one in this case.

The reason we need to do this is that parent and child documents must be stored on the same shard and this is ensured by using the parent's ID as the routing value.

Remember that since we did not specify a routing value explicitly when adding the parent documents, i.e.

the departments, the document IDs were being used implicitly by Elasticsearch when routing the documents to a shard.

All right, so let's go ahead and add the routing query parameter.

```
PUT /department/_doc/3?routing=1
{
  "name": "Bo Andersen",
  "age": 28,
  "gender": "M",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 1
  }
}
```
So question mark, routing, and the parent ID, which is one.

If we run the query again we should be able to successfully add the document, so let's try.
```
{
  "_index" : "department",
  "_type" : "_doc",
  "_id" : "3",
  "_version" : 2,
  "result" : "updated",
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 2,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "_seq_no" : 4,
  "_primary_term" : 1
}
```
And indeed it worked this time and the department and the employee are now stored on the same shard.

If for whatever reason you made use of custom routing remember to adjust the value of the routing query parameter accordingly.

By the way, in case you were wondering, I left the employee fields out of the mapping and just let Elasticsearch handle the mapping for the fields through dynamic mapping.

And that's it, that's how to add documents and define that a document is related to a parent document.

Let's finish this lecture off by adding a couple more employees beginning with one for the marketing department.

```
PUT /department/_doc/4?routing=2
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 44,
  "gender": "M",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 2
  }
}
```

So I'll just make a copy of this query right here, paste it in and adjust it.

So I'll set the ID to four, first of all, I'll set the name to, let's say John Doe, aged 44 and the parent will be the department with an ID of two.

Then I'll change the routing query parameter accordingly.

All right, and let's run it.

Just to have more than two employees within the index I'll paste in a handful of queries and run them.

So I'll do that down here, paste them in, and I'll just run them one-by-one like so.

```
PUT /department/_doc/5?routing=1
{
  "name": "James Evans",
  "age": 32,
  "gender": "M",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 1
  }
}
```

```
PUT /department/_doc/6?routing=1
{
  "name": "Daniel Harris",
  "age": 52,
  "gender": "M",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 1
  }
}
```

```
PUT /department/_doc/7?routing=2
{
  "name": "Jane Park",
  "age": 23,
  "gender": "F",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 2
  }
}
```

```
PUT /department/_doc/8?routing=1
{
  "name": "Christina Parker",
  "age": 29,
  "gender": "F",
  "join_field": {
    "name": "employee",
    "parent": 1
  }
}
```

Now that we have just a little bit of data to play with let's move on to seeing how we can query the document relation that we defined within the mapping.

