# Querying by parent

Time to write the first query in the context of document relations.

Let's start out with a super simple query which returns to child documents based on the parent documents ID.

The query is named parent underscore ID and in our case we can use it to retrieve the employees for given departments.

So let's add the query object, first of all.

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "parent_id": {
      "type": "employee",
      "id": 1
    }
  }
}
```
So the query is named parent on the score ID and I'll just add an empty object for now.

First, we need to tell Elasticsearch which relation we want to query by adding an option named type.

This is the type of document we want returns.

So we should type in the name of the child relation type here being employee.

So let's do just that.

So type and employee is the value.

We also need to specify the ID of the parent documents being the departments.

We do this by adding an option named ID.

I'll just choose the first department and enter one as the value.

So ID and one.

That's it.

Let's run the query and see if we get the expected results.

```
{
  "took" : 4,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.18232156,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "department",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "3",
        "_score" : 0.18232156,
        "_routing" : "1",
        "_source" : {
          "name" : "Bo Andersen",
          "age" : 28,
          "gender" : "M",
          "join_field" : {
            "name" : "employee",
            "parent" : 1
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Within the results, we can see that the query matches for documents, which is what we expected based on our test data.

If I change the parent ID to two, the query should match the employees and the other department instead.

So let's try to do that and I'll run it again.


```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "parent_id": {
      "type": "employee",
      "id": 2
    }
  }
}
```
```
{
  "took" : 353,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.540445,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "department",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "7",
        "_score" : 1.540445,
        "_routing" : "2",
        "_source" : {
          "name" : "Jane Park",
          "age" : 23,
          "gender" : "F",
          "join_field" : {
            "name" : "employee",
            "parent" : 2
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
And indeed, we can now see the other employees within the results.

That's really all there is to this query.

I told you it was easy.

Before ending the lecture, I just want to mention two things about the search results.

First of all, notice how the hits contain the join field within their underscore source key.

This is not useful to us in this case, as we know both of the values that query time, but for other queries it might be relevant to check the types of the match documents.

Secondly, notice how the hits also include an underscore routing key with a value of two.

This number matches the ID of the parent document.

Remember that a parent document and all of its child documents must be placed on the same chart, which I mentioned in the previous lecture.

The reason I mentioned routing again is just to show you that when using the parent underscore ID query, the value that we pass to the ID option is automatically used as the routing value.

In other words, Elasticsearch automatically uses the ID of the parent documents to figure out which shot the documents are placed on.

This is just the default behavior and can be overridden by using the routing query parameter.

If you did some custom routing, but that's not such a common thing to do.

If all of this just went over your head, then don't worry about it as it's just a bit of background knowledge that's not essential to understand when using the parent underscore ID query.

