You just saw how to retrieve child documents belonging to a parent document based on its ID.

That might not always be enough, though because you might not know the parent document's ID, or maybe you want to add some other conditions other than the document ID.

This can be accomplished with a query named has_parent.

This query lets you define a query that a parent document should match for a child document to be returned.

In other words, the query returns the child documents where the parent document matches some criteria.

Let's see it in action, shall we? Let's first add the name of the query and an empty object as the value, so has_parents and an empty object.

The first thing we need to do within this object, is to specify the parent relation name with an option named parent_type.

Since we'll be adding conditions to departments the relation name will be department.

So parents_type and department as the value.

Next, we need to specify the conditions that the parent document must satisfy.

We do this within an option named query.

As you might have guessed, we can specify any query in here.

So any query that you have seen until now will work.

What I'll do in this case is start a term query matching the development department by name.

That's the only field we have to work with for the departments, but you can use any other field that you might have available for your parent documents.

So let's get started typing that out, so I'll use the term query like I said and let's simplify the syntax here.

So the field will be name and I'll use the keyword mapping and the value to search for will be development.

Let's go ahead and run the query and see what happens.

Looking at the results, we can see that the matching documents belong to a parent with an ID of one, which corresponds to the development department.

Like I said before, you could add a query of any complexity here if you wanted to, such as the bool query.

All right, so we just successfully retrieved the employees for the development department.

So far so good.

Although that's already some quite powerful functionality, the has_parent query can do more than that.

One of the things that I'm going to show you, is how it supports relevance scoring.

By default, the query ignores the relevance score from the matching parent document, meaning that how well the parent document matches has no affect on the relevance scores of the child documents.

The default behavior is that a flat score of one is added to the score of each matching child document.

We can change this, however, by setting an option named score to true, so let's do that.

So I'll add an option named score here and set it to true.

Before running the query I want to direct your attention to the results from the previous query for a moment.

Notice how all of the matches have a relevance score of one.

This is the default behavior that I was talking about a moment ago, a flat score of one is applied to the matching documents from the matching parent document.

Let's now run the modified query and see the difference.

Notice how the relevance scores have now increased by approximately a third.

This is because the relevance score of the matching parent document is now taken into account and this is reflected in the scores for the child documents.

In other words, the relevance scores for the matches of the term query is used as the relevance score for the child documents.

Hopefully that makes sense.

And, it would make even more sense to do this if we were not searching for an exact value, but this is just an example.

So why is this even relevant? I know I said parent document in singular, but that might not always be the case.

There's nothing stopping the term query or whatever query is used from matching more than one document.

Supposed that we had used the match query instead to search some text field.

In this scenario the relevance scores would most likely differ quite a bit between the matched parent documents, depending on how well they match the query.

By setting the score option to true, we ensure that the child documents belonging to the best matching parent document are scored the highest within the results.

I admit that our query isn't the best for showing this, but I hope you understand the concept of applying the relevance score to child documents.

If you need more control of how the child documents are sorted, you can do this by using a query named function_score.

That's a query that we'll look at later in the course, so I won't get into that now.

It's also not a very common thing to do.

If you do need this behavior, then I have attached a link to an example of how you can do it.

All right, that's it.

As you can see, the has_parent query is more flexible than the parent_id query in cases where you don't know the ID of the parent document or when you're not just looking for a single parent document.

