# Querying parent by child documents

Now that you have seen how to retrieve child documents based on parent document criteria, let's now do the opposite.

The three parent documents based on criteria placed on their child documents.

Logically, the query that enables us to do this is named has underscored child.

Let's see it in action.

## Finding parents with child documents matching a `bool` query

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_child": {
      "type": "employee",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            {
              "range": {
                "age": {
                  "gte": 50
                }
              }
            }
          ],
          "should": [
            {
              "term": {
                "gender.keyword": "M"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
I'll begin by adding an empty object for the has underscore child key being the name of the query, so has underscore child and an empty object.

Within this object, we first need to define the relation type of the child documents for an option name type.

In this example, the value is going to be employee.

So let's type that out.

So type and employee.

Next, let's add an empty query object, which is where we'll be defining the constraints for the child documents, i.e.

the employees like so.

So what I want to do now is to match employees with an H greater than or equal to 50 and boost the relevant score if they are male.

There is no specific reason for this particular query other than to show you a slightly more advanced query compared to the previous lecture.

So let's get started typing it out.

So that's a job for the pull query.

So let's add that.

And first, I must close.

And in here I'm going to add a range query which will take care of searching for the H of rather constraining the H.

So the field is named H.

And let's get rid of the LCA option and just leave this one and set it to 50.

All right, let's now add a clause with that term query.

I'll change the syntax here a little bit.

So the fields will be gender and I'll use the keyword mapping because it's a term level query and I'll specify m short for male.

All right.

That's it.

Let's go ahead and run the query.
```
{
  "took" : 22,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "department",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.0,
        "_source" : {
          "name" : "Development",
          "join_field" : "department"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
Looking at the results, we can see that the development department matches because it has an employee with an age of 52.

If I change the age to 60, we shall see that the department no longer matches.

So let's try that.

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_child": {
      "type": "employee",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            {
              "range": {
                "age": {
                  "gte": 60
                }
              }
            }
          ],
          "should": [
            {
              "term": {
                "gender.keyword": "M"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
There we go.
```
{
  "took" : 1,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 0,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  }
}
```
And indeed the department no longer matches.

I'll just revert this change again.

Okay.

So just to recap with the Hess underscore child query, we are matching parent documents that contain child documents, matching some criteria.

This criteria can be any query that you have learned thus far, giving you maximum flexibility.

There are two more things that I want to mention about the has underscored child query.

First off, as with the Hess underscore parent query, we can make the query include the relevant scores of matching child documents.

Unlike the Hess underscore parent query, the option is named score on the score mode.

And it's not just a Boolean value.

As its name implies, there are five score modes that we can use, so let's quickly go through each of them.

2022-09-21_14-52

The min and max modes take the lowest and highest score respectively of any matching child document and maps it into the relevant score for the parent document.

The sum and AVG modes, on the other hand, include all of the child documents, relevant scores and calculate the sum and error respectively.

The resulting number is then aggregated into the relevant score of the parent documents.

Last but not least, there is a score mode named None, which doesn't consider the relevant scores of child documents at all.

This is the default behavior, so you can either just set the value to non explicitly or simply leave it out entirely.

Let's quickly add the score and the score mode option to our query.

Just for the sake of an example, I'll set the mode to some.

## Taking relevance scores into account with `score_mode`

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_child": {
      "type": "employee",
      "score_mode": "sum",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            {
              "range": {
                "age": {
                  "gte": 50
                }
              }
            }
          ],
          "should": [
            {
              "term": {
                "gender.keyword": "M"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

So let's go up here and add the option score on the score mode and specify some as the value.

And let's go ahead and run the query.
```
{
  "took" : 11,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 1.5389965,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "department",
        "_type" : "_doc",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 1.5389965,
        "_source" : {
          "name" : "Development",
          "join_field" : "department"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
Notice how the relevant score of the match document is no longer just one.

The score just increased by approximately a third because now the sum of the matching child documents, the scores have been aggregated into the score.

This approach is useful when you don't just want to find out which parent documents have child documents matching the criteria, but also want to take into account how well the child documents match.

Naturally, the number of matching child documents might also affect the relevant score when using the sum scoring mode.

There are many scenarios where you can make use of the score mode depending on which kind of data you need to retrieve.

Next up, the Hess underscore child query also allows us to specify the minimum and maximum number of children that must be matched for the parent document to be included within the search results.

We can do that by simply adding the min on the score.

Children and Max underscore children options.

So let's quickly do that.

## Specifying the minimum and maximum number of children

```
GET /department/_search
{
  "query": {
    "has_child": {
      "type": "employee",
      "score_mode": "sum",
      "min_children": 2,
      "max_children": 5,
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            {
              "range": {
                "age": {
                  "gte": 50
                }
              }
            }
          ],
          "should": [
            {
              "term": {
                "gender.keyword": "M"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
So I'll set the min on the score children option to two and the max on the score children option.

So let's say five and let's run the query and check the results.

```
{
  "took" : 5,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 0,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : null,
    "hits" : [ ]
  }
}
```
Now we no longer get any matches.

That's because we set the minimum number of children to two.

But the department that matched before only has one child document that matches the crew that we specified in this query.

We specified both of the options, but you can of course leave out either one of them if you want.

So.

Lastly, I want to quickly mention that the has underscore child query also supports sorting parent documents by child documents in the same way as the has on the parent query support sorting.

Since that requires scripting, I'm just going to attach a link to an example.

So this lecture because we haven't covered scripting yet.

And that's it for this lecture.

I'll see you in the next one.

