In the previous section, we went through a number of term level queries which are used for exact matches.

While you can use terminal level queries for searching through long text fields, that's usually not something you want to do.

As you know, that's because term level queries are used for exact matches.

Examples of fields where you would use full text queries could be blog posts, articles, descriptions, etc.

We already talked about the difference between term level queries and full text queries, so I don't want to take up any more of your time with that.

I do, however, want to mention that I have prepared a new set of test data for this section of the course which you can find attached to this lecture and also within the GitHub repository.

I have already imported this test data, which you've seen how to do a couple of times.

I added the data to an index named recipe with a type of default before writing some full text queries.

Let's take a short moment to look at the mapping that has been added for the new recipe index.

I just imported the data without creating the index or mappings first.

So I'm using dynamic mapping, letting Elasticsearch take care of adding the appropriate mappings for us.

So let's have a look what it looks like.

So the index name is recipe and the type is defaults and I'll use the mapping API.

First we have a created field, which is a date.

You can see how Elasticsearch has automatically added a date format through data detection.

We also have a description field, which also has a keyword mapping, which is probably not so useful.

More interesting, though, is the ingredients field.

This is actually an object containing both the name and quantity of an ingredient, hence why those in fields are nested within the properties objects.

Also worth noting is that the documents within the test data actually have an array of ingredients objects.

You don't see this in the mapping because the field may have more than one value by default, which is why Elasticsearch does not have an array data type.

You heard that before, but I just wanted to show you an example of it.

The rest of the mappings are really nothing special and you've seen similar ones before.

We have a number of representing how many minutes the recipe takes to prepare ratings, how many servings the recipe is for, etc.

Nothing out of the ordinary here.

So let's begin writing some full text queries.

