The first full text query will look at is the match query.

This is a powerful and simple query, but it allows for very flexible matching.

It's very useful for searching for queries that users enter, such as on Google.

As you know, some level queries are used for exact matching and are therefore more useful when filtering on enum fields or queries that you have control over as a developer.

When dealing with search queries that come straight from a text input, the match query is better suited.

Let's start with a query that searches for a sentence that could very well have been written into a search field by human.

So get recipe defaults search and across body and the query object to query will be a match query and the field will be title.

And let's enter recipes with pasta or spaghetti.

Whoops, spaghetti.

And let's run it.

And let's take a moment to inspect the results.

The first match contains the term spaghetti twice and the term pasta once, which gives it a high relevance score.

Scrolling down to the next recipe.

Notice how the title only includes the term pasta and none of the other terms.

The reason for that is that the match query is a Boolean query.

What happens internally is that the terms are used for Boolean query with a default operator of or that's a simplification as more than this happens, which I'll get back to soon.

Since the default operator is or all terms do not need to appear in the field that we are searching, but the more terms that appear, the higher the relevance.

This is useful because we probably don't want to require filler words such as with dir etc.

to be present.

That's because those words are not significant in terms of relevance and can differ based on who is writing the query.

For a sentence, this could easily mean that matches become unpredictable because there are so many variations and requiring every insignificant term to be present might result in some queries not matching, even though there are documents that are highly relevant.

Besides, perhaps you recall one of the factors of relevant scores, namely the inverse document frequency.

This factor reduces the importance and relevance boost for words that appear many times within an index, meaning that these filler words will not really cause any trouble in regards to relevance.

Therefore, you will usually want to leave the boolean operator at the default value.

But in case you want to change it, it can actually be done.

Let's see how.

So I'll make a copy of this query.

I will need to restructure it a bit, so I'll cut out this sentence and change this property to an object.

And add a quirky with The Simpsons from before and we can add an operator key and set it to end the default is or so now we're setting it to the Boolean and let's run it.

So with this, all of the terms within the query must be present within a document's title fields for it to match.

As a result, we no longer have any documents that match the query.

Even the recipe that had both the terms, spaghetti and pasta terms within the title, that recipe was highly relevant.

So our change was probably not for the better.

In other cases, it might be useful though.

If you can define the query ahead of time, then this could indeed be useful, such as when embedding queries within code and not using user input for the query.

Let's keep the end operator and try to shorten the query and get rid of the parts that caused it to not match anything.

So I'll delete the first two words.

So we only have the words pasta or spaghetti and run the query again.

So this modified query now matches one document being the one with all three terms in the title.

Great.

But let's see what happens if I remove the autumn in the query.

So let's get rid of this and run the query again.

As you can see within the results, the document still matches because both terms appear within the title field.

What I wanted to show you is that we are still searching for terms and not an entire sentence.

So that's why the document still matches.

And if I were to switch the terms around within the query, the document would still match just fine.

Remember that the crude that we enter for the match query is analyzed by using the analyzer that is specified within the field mapping.

This is of course, different than the term level queries that you just saw which are not analyzed.

So those were the basics of the match query.

