So far we have only been searching for terms within a single field.

In this lecture, I want to show you how we can search multiple fields within the same query.

As it turns out, this is very easy.

By using a query named Multi Underscore Match.

With this query, we can specify an array of fields to search through, apart from a query that we've done so far, let's see an example of that.

So like I said, the query type is multi underscore match.

The query will be pasta.

And then we have an array which should contain field names.

So I will search the title fields and also the description fields.

Let's run the query.

Let's scroll through the results for a moment.

First, we see a document containing the term pasta within the title.

Let's scroll down a bit and here we have a document where this is not the case.

Instead, this document contains the term within the description field.

So as you can see, the query is indeed searching both the title and the description field.

It's also possible to add a type option to the query to control how the query is executed internally.

That gets a bit more advanced.

I want I want to tell you now, though, so I won't get into that other than telling you what happens by default.

Suppose that we are searching for the term spaghetti and pasta within the title and description fields.

Even though we're searching two fields, a document would probably be more relevant if the two terms appeared in the same field instead of one term in each field.

By default, documents containing the terms in any of the specified fields are matched, but the relevant score from the best matching field is used.

This means that if one of the fields contains both terms and the other field only contains one of them, then the relevant score for the first field is used for that document.

What happens internally is that Elasticsearch takes the terms and executes a match query for each one within a query named this Max.

That's an advanced query that's not important to understand yet, so I'll leave it at that.

There are other types that you can use with the multi match query, but this quickly gets pretty advanced.

So I will attach a link to the documentation to this lecture.

Changing the type is not a common thing to do when just starting out with Elasticsearch.

So I don't want to spend a lot of time and get very technical with these types at this point in the course.

Anyways, enough about that.

You have now seen how to search multiple fields within documents, and I told you a little bit about how it works internally, which is all I wanted to share with you in this lecture.

